Prof. Jiang  0:00  
Okay, welcome to the very last class, the grand finale today. We do the immigrant empire, July 1944 this is the Brennan wits Hotel in New Hampshire. 40 nations get together and they discuss what the post war peace will look like. Everyone knows that Nazi Germany will eventually be defeated as well as Japan. So the question now is, how does the world build peace and prosperity after such a devastating war? And the Americans propose the Bretton Woods system. The idea is this. The idea is to facilitate global trade, the American currency will become the reserve currency of the world, meaning that everyone can use it to trade. Now, the term we use for this is exorbitant privilege. This is like the power of God, because you're basically turning taking paper turning to gold, right? That's the power of God. So how can we ensure the Americans won't abuse this power? And the answer is, the Americans agree to create a global financial network as well as peg the currency to gold, which means that the USD is a contract, and at any point you can choose to exchange US dollars for gold. And so what America does is it transports all the gold from London to Fort Knox, and that becomes the basis for the new global financial system that we still have today, and it is incredibly successful. This is the Bank of International Settlements in Basel, Switzerland. And it is the Bank of banks. It is a Central bank of Central banks. And the idea here is you need to create a system for risk for risk mitigation. So, for example, if maybe a country goes bankrupt, the other countries need to come in and rescue that country's economy. Okay? And so this bank is something you never heard of, but it's one of the most powerful institutions in the world because it facilitates the entire global financial economy. Bretton Woods also created something called the World Bank, which is based in Washington, DC. And what it does is that it gives out loans to third world nations like China. The IMF, the National Monetary Fund, coordinates global financial policy. Okay, so the the bank of the national settlements, the World Bank, the IMF, among other organisations, now becomes the global financial system. And underpinning all this is the US Dollar as the global reserve currency. Okay, so, um, where did the system come from? What comes from 1688, remember, this is the year that will orange of the Netherlands. He goes to England and launches something called the Glorious Revolution. And he takes a throne from James the Second when he goes to England, he also brings with him Dutch wealth, right? Because the Netherlands is now the most prosperous nation the world because of global trade. They have something called a Dutch West Indies company that has monopolised a spice trade in East Asia. So it's a Dutch East, East Indies Company, and so it's extremely wealth now, as we discussed previously, the Dutch are Calvinist. So they that, so they believe that there's a religious obligation for them to get wealthy. Wealth will guarantee their entry into heaven. But for that to happen, they need to ensure their wealth is protected, right? And at this point in history, the Netherlands is that is being conquered or at war with France, with Spain, with with a host of enemies. So it's not the money isn't safe in the Netherlands, so it's being transferred over to England, because England has a navy that is the most powerful in the world. It's also an island, so it's pretty hard to invade 1694, this wealth becomes a basis of the Bank of England, which is considered the second oldest central bank in the world, but it's really the first central bank in the world. The reason why is this bank, it's a private bank, but it's guaranteed by Parliament, which means that the nation state of England promises to always pay back the investors in this bank. So why does this happen? It happens because it will resolve a huge issue throughout human history if you're a king. You need financing to go to war. You often need to pay for missionaries. To get this money, you need to basically borrow from your wealthiest citizens. The problem with this is, as king, you may not want to pay back that money after the war, or you could get killed in a war. Okay, so there's always tremendous risk when you lend money to the king, the Bank of England solves this problem, because you're not lending money to the king, you're lending money to England, and the people will always have to pay you back. All right, so maybe they won't pay you back today, but they'll have to pay you back sooner or later, okay, because it's guaranteed by Parliament, and this system is extremely successful. In fact, this system is what allows England to defeat Napoleon. In no panic wars, okay, in 1815 Napoleon is finally defeated. So, as we discussed previously, Napoleon, he is a military genius, and he conquers most of Europe, and he defeats England, many, many times. But because of the Bank of England Napoleon, the English have infinite financing. So the British are always financing wars against Napoleon until he is finally defeated. And this establishes the British Empire. Okay, so after the feet of Napoleon and France, Britain becomes the global hegemon and Bank of England now becomes an Imperial Bank, and the power of this is before, when you go, when you go and conquer a country or a nation, you're always afraid of rebellion, right? You're always afraid of local elite getting, getting together and overthrowing you. But the Bank of England solves this problem. Why it solves this problem? Because now the local elite can take their corrupt earnings and put it in the Bank of England. All right, so now the elite have an incentive to work with the British to maintain their empire, and that's how Britain was able to build the world's first truly global empire, and able to maintain such harmony and stability with Empire for such a long time. Okay, the secret was international finance as embodied by the Bank of England. Okay, so let's summarise the history of central banking. Okay, it's complicated, but we need to understand this history we understand today's world. First important idea is the Dutch covenants. They have a religious obsession with storing wealth. Remember, we discussed this, right. The Protestant religion demands that you get rich. The parliament of England guarantees his wealth. Does given England infinite financing for wars. This is important, because if Parliament is willing to guarantee financing, not only can it use all this wealth stored in the Bank of England, but it can also generate new wealth from investors overseas as well. Okay. Third idea, this financing, infinite financing, allows Britain to defeat Napoleon. Fourth, the Bank of England stores wealth of corrupt local elites, allowing for stability and harmony within the within the empire. Now this is important. What will happen next is America will emulate this model and create something called the Federal Reserve in the year 1914 so the idea the Federal Reserve is, you have all these provincial banks around America, they get together and decide that we as private banks, will convince the government, the Congress to give us a power to print money. How do you print money? You issue loans. Okay, when you issue loans, you're basically printing money into the system. Okay? So in 1914 developed the Federal Reserve System, and after World War Two, America is now able to export this Federal Reserve System all around the world by creating independent central banks in each nation, and having these central banks work together to create more wealth for their investors. So there's really important, you have to understand nation states compete against each other, but independent Central States, all these nation states, work together, because that way it's easier for them to generate wealth for their investors. Okay, to grow capital. Private central banks coordinate rather than compete. There are parasites that feed off the nation state. Okay? So this is a really important idea that no one understands. The nation state is responsible for protecting its wealth, and the central banks can use the resources of the nation state to feed its capital growth, okay, and this is the modern financial system that we have today, the central banks basically rule the world.

Prof. Jiang  9:47  
Okay, so this is Carol Quigley, and he wrote a book called tragedy and hope, which I highly recommend. He was a Georgetown professor. He was Bill Clinton's favourite professor at Georgetown. Yeah, and in this book, he explains how this financial system works. Okay, so let's read it very carefully. And this is talking about the 1920s after World War One, the powers of financial capitalism had another far reaching aim, nothing less than to create a world system of financial control in private hands, able to dominate the political system of each country and the economy of the world as a whole. This system was to be controlled in a feudalist fashion by the central banks of the world acting in concert by secret agreements arrived at infrequent private meetings and conferences. The apex of the system was to be the Bank of foreign national settlements in Basel, Switzerland, a private bank owned and controlled by the world's central banks, which were themselves private corporations. Each central bank in the hands of men like Montague, Norman of the Bank of England, Benjamin strong of the New York Federal Reserve, Charles risk of the Bank of France, and helm of the red Speck, sought to dominate its government by its ability to control Treasury loans, to manipulate foreign exchanges, to influence the level of economic activity in the country, and to influence cooperative politicians by subsequent economic rewards in the business world. Okay, so in today's world, it's essential banks at in concert that dictate financial, economic and political policy all around the world. All right, so how can we understand central banks? Well, the main function of central banks is to control the money supply. Okay, so money is just a concept. It's an idea. It's something that we just made up. And the way that central bank controls money is by controlling its scarcity, which creates the illusion that it's valuable, okay? Also, you're forced to use money to buy things as well as pay taxes, take out loans, all right? And they control the interest rate, which is the cost of borrowing money. So in other way of saying this is one mechanism that central bank has to control the economy is by lowering or by lowering or increasing interest rates. If it lowers interest rates, it's just easier, cheaper to borrow money, right? So you can go buy a house or buy a car, they increase the interest rate, it's more expensive, so people spend less money. So through that mechanism, they're able to control the supply of money in the system. All right, all right. So how can we understand what central bankers are? Well, I'll give you three possible metaphors, okay, and I think these are all legitimate. Central bankers are the ultimate priests. They must control the flow of money to maintain the illusion that money is God. In this way, they are the new Catholic Church. Okay, remember, Catholic Church in mediaeval Europe was the dominant power. It was beyond nations. It was It represented God on earth. Well, that's what central bankers are today. But also, you can think of central bankers as the game masters. They must control the flow of money to motivate people to play the game. As we discussed, we discussed the Americans today we live not in a civil civilization, but in a game where all individual players trying to make as much money as possible. Central bankers are the ones who control the rules of this game. Last metaphor is central bankers are drug pushers to expand their dominance, they offer easy money, and once a country is addicted or bankrupt, they hijack the financial system, which means to prioritise or make independent the central bank. Okay, so how do central bankers work? Well, let's, let's, let's do an experiment. Okay, let's, let's use a thought experiment. Let's just say I'm a central bank and you and I'm trying to get you to become addicted to my power, right? So what I do is this, I say to you, hey, here's $10,000 and you're like, Okay, and what do you want for $10,000 I'm like, nothing. Just go enjoy yourself. So you take that $10,000 and you go, go on vacation to Hawaii, you live in a five star hotel. You're really happy. You come back and says, that was great. Can I get more money? And I'm like, Here, here's a million dollars. Go and enjoy yourself. And you're like, What do you want for it? And I'm like, nothing. Just go enjoy yourself. So you go, but this time you're smarter, like, no, no, no, no, no. This money is limited. I need to go invest it if I want to generate more money. Okay? Otherwise, I have to go back to the bank and get more money. So you start doing you start opening businesses. You invest in restaurants and ski resorts. Who knows? Okay, but you have all these investments. The problem is you really don't know what you're doing, and you make these bad investments. And eventually what you recognise is you're in debt. Now you had a million dollars, but now you owe $10 million so you come back to the bank and you say, Listen, I need $10 million I'm like, fine, but now you have to give me your soul. And you're like, you're just stuck. Okay, that's how central banks work. I know this sounds terrible, but that's really how they work in the world. All right, so I'll give examples. All right. I'm. So what central banks do is they have the power of God. They're alchemists, basically, because they can take paper, which we know is worthless, and turn it into gold, which is what everyone wants. Now, something to remember, and this is really important, is that throughout history, whenever there's a major power, there's always a rising power that challenges it. So in our world today, there's no nation state that can challenge the power of central banks, but there are these technology companies that are arising that are trying to displace them from Gotham. Okay, so bitcoin is something they've invented. It is the American military's fail safe system in case the American government defaults on the debt and the US dollar loses its reserve currency status. So Bitcoin has been controlled by the American military along with certain technology companies, and they're trying to displace the USD. All right, so there's a conflict going on here. All right. Also, artificial intelligence will be used to create the illusion of God, right? Why is there so much investment interest in artificial intelligence, because even though it doesn't really work that well, it can trick people into believing it is God, that it is omniscient. That is always right, that is the ultimate authority. Last example, sorry. Last example is social media, video games and porn of a drug of the 21st Century. Okay, so in other words, these technology companies, they're really in the process of creating a matrix in which we just live in simulation, and we're all slaves to the simulation. Okay, so this is something that we have to think about, how the central banks are in power, but there's always powers that are rising, which will challenge the power of the central banks. Okay? So how do we get this system? Go back to your 1950 1960 the world started into two, right? It's divided between the capitalist West and the Communist East. Now this is ultimately a war of ideology. It's really a question of which system, capitalism or communism, it's better for humanity. Well, we don't know the answer to that question, but we do know the elite prefer capitalism because capitalism gives them more power, gives them more wealth. So the elites, both in China and the Soviet Union, they basically give up. Okay, in 1991 the Soviet Union basically unconditionally surrenders, and this creates the complete dominance of the American system, the Pax Americana. So once America has domination, it now can spread its system throughout the world. This is Karl pauper, and he wrote a book called The Open Society, and in it, he questions grand ideologies because he believes that it's these grand ideologies like communism and fascism that destroyed the world and which have led to World War Two. He hates Plato. He hates Marx. He hates Hegel. He thinks these are the three totalitarian philosophers in human history, and so what he proposes is that the height of civilization is the Anglo American civilization. Okay, the Germans and the Russians are bad because they are racist, because they are nationalistic, because they are grand in their vision. They're always trying to transform humans to shapes and things that human, that are anti human. But the Americans and the British, they are practical. They are utilitarian. They are they believe in evolution, okay, and that's what called and so Karl Popper believes the Anglo American civilization is really the height of human civilization.

Prof. Jiang  18:42  
But there's actually another way to understand the Pax Americana. And so the idea is, from World War Two, we we transfer the Pax Americana, and there are major differences, right? So World War Two was about the nation state that was the main constituent body of World War Two in the Pax Americana, what matters is the international rules based order, which includes central banks, but also includes United Nations, right? World War Two is about mercantilism. Mercantilism is that you only trade within your sovereignty, okay? You only trade with your colonies. But Pax Americana argues for global free trade. Global free trade will lead to prosperity in the world, World War Two argues for unit of will, and Pax American argues for consumerism. Okay, the unit of will is the idea that we must be a whole, that the constituent parts together are less than the whole. Okay. Consumerism is just. Individuals should just go and spend money and enjoy the life and don't worry about big problems like the nation state and history, these ideas all right. In other words, what's happened in our world is the world's gone from one that focus on civilization to a game. In a civilization, people are citizens who sacrifice. Themselves in order to obtain glory. Okay, so think of Achilles, right? Achilles went to Troy because he was a competition among his other Greeks to seek Eternal glory. Okay, but in the game, we're all individual players who are trying to make as much money as possible. Now, in theory, you're taught that, okay, the best way to do that is to work hard, be smart, be talented, create something innovative, right? But in reality, the best way to make money is by cheating. Okay, what is cheating? Cheating is basically creating monopoly, and then you're forced, and then once it's forced, to pay as much as you want. Okay? So John Rockefeller, Bill Gates, these were all monopolists, and they were the wealthiest people in human history. Okay, all right, so after World War Two, America is the only major industrial nation left standing, and America uses opportunity to rebuild both its economy as well as the global economy, and it does so by trends transferring its wartime economy into a peacetime economy. In a wartime economy, you are measuring goods at Mass right when a peacetime economy, you're also doing that. The problem, though, is now that you have peace, who's going to buy these products? So what America did was it basically said to Europe, we'll make these products, these manufactured goods, these cars, and you will buy them. Europe's like, we have no money. And America's like, don't worry about it. We'll lend you the money. Okay? And so this worked out really well for America. If you were a white high school graduate male in America in 1950s and 60s 70s, you had the best life you live better than the nobility of Rome. Okay, this is just a guy. He could be a salesperson, he could be a clerk, he could be a factory worker, but he had a car. In fact, he probably had two cars. He had his own house. His wife didn't have to work, and he could send his three kids to college. Also, they could take one or two vacations a year to Europe. It was really the best life, and that's what the past Americana created, okay, prosperity and peace for the American middle class. But the problem is that, over time, the Germans start to catch up. The Germans were destroyed in World War Two, so they were incentivized to work together, to work hard, to rebuild their civilization, and German manufacturing became famous throughout the world, as did Japanese manufacturing. Okay? So now what's happening is, because of the security of German and Japanese manufactured goods, America was transitioning, transitioning from a creditor nation where everyone owed it money to a debtor nation where its consumers were buying things that it could really afford from overseas. Okay? And again, America could do so, because America had the US Dollar as a reserve currency. 1961 Dwight Eisenhower is retiring from the presidency, and he says to the American people, I know we are at war with the Soviet Union. It's a cold war, but we don't have any real enemies. Our enemies are all internal. There is currently in place something called the military industrial complex. They employ millions of people. They manufacture weapons, and they're intent on war. They are our true enemy. If we allow the military industrial complex to hijack the American political system, then we'll be caught, then we'll be constantly fighting these useless wars that will back up our nation. Be aware this is our greatest threat to our nation in our history. Okay? This is his farewell address. The potential for the disastrous rise of misplaced powers exist and will persist. We must never let the weight of this combination endanger our liberties or democratic processes. Okay, it's about the military industrial complex, and it proved present and prophetic, because after he after he retired, America will start engaging in wars around the world that it could neither afford Nor could it fight properly, and it bankrupted America. Most famous example is the Vietnam War, okay, where America lost about 50,000 soldiers and killed millions and millions of Vietnamese civilians. It was a pointless, brutal war that almost bankrupted America, and it almost caused the civil war in America, right? At this time, America was also competing in the Soviet Union in a space race, right? So in 1969 America sent a man to the moon. And this is a real picture. Okay? Now some of you might be. Like some of you who might be conspiracy theorists, okay, not me, but some of you might be conspiracy theorists. Say, wait a minute here. Why is the lighting perfect on the moon, right? And why are there no stars in this in space, and why is this flag flooding around? Okay, conspiracy theorists would would ask these questions. I don't ask these questions because I'm not conspiracy theorist, just aware completion. Okay? Also at this time, Lyndon B Johnson announced the Great Society, which was just a fantastic social programme to ensure that each and every American had opportunity at the American dream. Okay, so you had free health care for the elderly. You had programmes like Head Start. It was fantastic, but it's also really, really expensive. So if you are a nation like France, you're like, you know what? America is sending people to the moon. It's fighting all these pointless wars, and it's building all these great social programmes for its population. Does America have the money to do this? In other words, is it possible that the US currency, the US dollar, is no longer able to repay its obligations? That's why France, under Charles de Gaulle, sent warships to America in the mid 60s to repatriate its gold. It's afraid that America will go bankrupt. And this proved very, very wise, and at this, and when Afro France did this, there's now of this fear among Americans that every nation will do this, and then every nation did this, America will go bankrupt, right? That's why, in the year 1971 Richard Nixon announces the US dollar will no longer be tied to gold, which means that you can't use US dollars to buy gold anymore. Which means what? Which means the US dollar is based on nothing. The value of the US dollar is now based primary, primarily on people's faith in its value. Okay? So this leads to a lot of problems like inflation and oil shock. So to solve this problem, in 1973 Nixon has an agreement with Saudi Arabia. Basically, agreement is that from now on, Saudi Arabia, which is the world's largest oil exporter, will only take payments in US dollars, and whatever savings that everybody has will be invested in US Treasuries. Okay, so this is what we call the petrol dollar. And the idea here is now the value of the US dollar is tied to the value of oil. Okay, you can always exchange US dollars for oil. But then Nixon did something that was all that was extremely clever. He went to China. Okay, so for the longest time, China and United States were at a Cold War Americans basically isolated China. So in 1972 Nixon visited Mao Zedong. Why? The answer is very simple, because he needed more consumers to buy US dollars. Does that make sense? He needed people to want US dollars. He needed to create a US dollar addiction, and to do this, what did America do? America gave China everything. America started

Prof. Jiang  28:20  
to ship its factories overseas to China. America gave all its expertise and technology to China. America started to educate the Chinese elite. And what's really important is American defence companies started to give military secret technology to China. Okay, now I know that United States people believe that China stole this technology. China didn't have to steal this technology because America gave it to China for free. Okay, why would it? Why would America do this to create dependence on America? Because once the dependence is created, then Chinese will want US dollars. Okay, the intention has always been to create a market for US dollars in order to prop up the US currency. Okay, does that make sense? So Saudi Arabia gave its oil to United States, and China gave its labour, okay, its most precious commodity to the United States exchange for US dollars. All right. So why is this important? Let's look at the case of Japan. The year is 1985 okay? And this isn't called the Plaza Accord. The Plaza Accord was between the central bankers and the finance ministries of different nations, but probably between United States and Japan. Japan, at this point, was an export powerhouse. It was the second largest economy in the world. High savings rate. People really didn't want to buy American goods, but Americans love Japanese goods. Okay, so it's creating this trade imbalance, and Japan was growing and becoming an economic powerhouse. So America said to Japan, Listen, you guys need to restructure your economy because your consumers aren't spending any money. This creates trade imbalance, and ultimately, this will lead to structural problems in Japan. So what we're going to do is we will revalue the Japanese currency. We'll appreciate it with. Will appreciate it against the US dollar. Okay? So as Japanese consumers, you're able to buy more from the United States. Now, Japanese economists thought this was a terrible idea, but because America has military bases in Japan, Japan didn't have a choice of the matter, right? And so this created the Japanese explosion of wealth. Okay? So they were by Rockefeller Plaza in New York City, and this created a fair of Japan and in the United States. So to show you, to demonstrate you, to you, how ridiculous the situation was in the year 1990 in Kyoto, the Imperial grounds, okay? I'm not talking about the city of Kyoto. I'm talking about the Imperial grounds and Kyoto. Okay, that land, by itself, was worth more than Canada as a country. You could, you could sell the Imperial grounds of Kyo and go buy Canada for yourself. Okay, that's how ridiculous the situation was in Japan. Because of the appreciation of the yen, cheap money flooded into the nation of Japan, and so people were speculating on real estate and the stock market, okay, which led to, ultimately, economic collapse in Japan. So as you can see, from the 60s up until about the 90s, Japanese growth was pretty strong, but after the plastic accord, you saw a steep drop, okay, the plastic accord by appreciating the yen, by giving Japanese easy money, it destroyed the Japanese economy. All right, so remember this, if you want to nuke an economy in a nation, you really destroy an economy in a nation. Give them easy money. All right, if I want to destroy you as a person, I'm gonna give you a million dollars, because you're gonna take a million dollars and do stupid things with it. Okay, oh, okay, yeah. What does easy money mean? Easy money just means that you think it's free. You don't have to you have to work for it. You don't have to earn it, okay? And the idea of easy money is central banks have the power to print money. So if you come to me around bank, I can actually just give you a million dollars. You take it. That's easy money, right? Okay, that's idea. Okay, so you don't understand this. It's a hard copy to understand, but banks have that power. They can just print money out of nothing, and this one called Easy money. And what this leads to is disaster. Okay, so let's go over the list of how easy money destroys nations. First is that it turns manufacturers and financial speculators. The reason why is maybe your car company, okay, and before you make you're making good money making cars to sell it to the Americans. But if the economy is blowing up. The stock market is increasing. The real estate market is increasing. You're actually better off taking all your savings, your investments, and putting it into the stock market, right? Because you got better returns as a corporation, you have to guarantee better returns for your investors, okay? It makes people lazy, selfish and greedy. That's that's easy to understand, right? If someone just gave you a million dollars, you would not want to work or study ever again in your life. You create too much debt too quickly. You create financial bubbles, corruption between the politicians and the financial elite. You create massive inequality, right? Because it's usually the wealthy who most benefit from this wealth generation. You increase unemployment and bankruptcies. And the last thing this is really important is because of all this surge in in prices, you price up young people, and you destroy the nation's future. You look at the birth rate in Japan, it's about one, okay? And the reason why is Japanese young people do not see a future for themselves. House are too expensive. The jobs don't pay that well, okay, any questions before I continue? Is this fair? Okay? All right, let's continue, but it's not just Japan. It's also 1997 Asian financial crisis. Remember, this is when South Korea, Thailand, Indonesia, their currencies were under attack. And because their currencies were under attack, they became devalued. The problem of this is before this, Thailand, Indonesia and South Korea had access to easy money provided by central banks, and so they could afford to buy things overseas, invest things overseas, they could, but once the value was was the once the currency was devalued, they now went bankrupt. Okay? And as a result, the National Monetary Fund was able to step in and prioritise the central banks. So that's a playbook. It All right? 1989 is important, because that's when the Berlin Wall fell and the Soviet Union and communism came to an end. Now it's a Pax Americana, okay? And then the Pax Americana, the system is America would ship its manufacturing overseas. Remember, manufacturing was a source of middle class wealth generation. Now it's shipping all its manufacturing overseas to focus on financialization. All right. So the idea is that Wall Street would take all its money, all this wealth being generated overseas, and then take it back to America and use it to invest in America, to basically engage in financial games. Does that make sense? So in other words, before America was manufacturing things like cars and washing machines, now America is just gambling. Okay, the entire economy is based on gambling anymore, and this will lead to something called the 2008 great financial crisis, where the global economy collapses basically 2001 and 911 the World Trade Centre, right? The terrorist attacks. Again, I'm not conspiracy theorist, so I'm not going to go into the conspiracies behind this, but it lets them call the war on terror, where America, for no particular reason, went to Iraq, Syria, Libya, and destroyed these countries. Now if you're conspiracy theorists, you would say, well, they destroy these countries because these countries didn't have central banks, right? So that's what some people say. I would not say that. I'm not conspiracy theorists. 2008 is the great financial crisis. Why did it happen? It happened because America had become a gambling economy, and so it had to take money and invest it. The problem, though, is there's too much money flowing into America, and there's not enough good investments. So what Wall Street did was it started to invest in really bad investments. It was encouraging people with no money to go and buy out, buy like five houses, okay? And eventually they would have to default, and when they default, it would create a cascading effect where the entire global economy would collapse. And that's what the what was the 2008 great financial crisis. To solve this problem, what America did was print money. Okay, look at this, guys. Up until the year 1980 America had about a trillion dollars in debt, okay? America was found in 1776 by the year 1980 about 20 years later, it had a twin dollars in debt. Today, it has now $37 trillion in debt. Okay, this is all money printing starting about 2008 boom. You see a steep curve going all the way up, all right? The economy in America right now is really screwed up. The reason why is the stock market is worth twice as much as the real economy. Okay, that makes no sense at all. The total value of the US economy is half of that of the stock market. Okay, so this shows you that right now, America is living in a fantasy. It's a make believe economy.

Prof. Jiang  38:16  
The other problem is this massive wealth inequality, okay, so as you can see, the wealth wealthy people are pretty wealthy, but by 2000 but 1980 the time of Reagan, it shoots all the way up. Okay, so you have this massive wealth inequality being created in the United States. This also shows you how wealthy the top 00, 1% are relative to everyone else. Okay, so the main beneficiaries of all these reforms, of this finization, has been the ultra wealthy in America. At the same time, if you're an average American, all you've seen is your debt go up. Okay? Your debt has gone way up. So you can make the argument that the system is designed to exploit the middle class by forcing it into debt so as to enrich the wealthiest investments. Okay, that's the American system. And in fact, you can argue the global system. So 2008, the global economy collapses. So what happens? Okay? And I believe this is what happened. I don't think this is conspiracy theory. The central banks basically encourage the Chinese central bank to start printing money, right? And this is important, because when you start putting money and you invest in real estate, you need resources. You need to buy resources from Australia, from Brazil, and this is what saves the global economy. And this all looks very impressive, guys like I know when you go outside, you see all these big buildings and fancy. Um, railways. It's all very impressive. But remember, okay, this is really important. Behind the veneer of this prosperity are three things, massive debt, right? This is money is being printed, so someone has to pay this off. You guys, not not the current people, but you guys, or your grandchildren, or your great grandchildren, okay? But someone has to pay off this debt. That's number two is this has created massive inequality in China, right? So the rich are filthy rich, and the poor aren't that much better off. The third problem that's really important is it's created a lot of political corruption. All right, so behind all this veneer are corruption, inequality and debt, and this is what, okay, so a really important lesson for you guys to understand the Chinese relationship with America is this. This is very famous quote by Charles bardier, who said the greatest trick the devil ever pulled was convincing the world he didn't exist. Okay, well, I'm gonna, I'm going to paraphrase him, okay? And this is what I think is the relationship between America and China. The greatest trick America played was convincing China it could be rich, right? This is no different from 1985 the plaza Accords, when America basically encouraged the Japanese to increase the value of their yen, which led to economic collapse. Well, but when Americans encouraged the Chinese print money in about 2008 and about 2015 it basically created conditions for China's economic collapse. Okay, all right. This is what led to the rise of this man, our dear, fearless leader. Okay, I believe his intentions are good. I think he wants to save China from this global financial capitalist system. He needs to maintain China's independence and sovereignty, and he's fighting very hard to save the Chinese nation. Okay, that's what I believe. And so you make the argument that what's happening today in China is no different from the Opium Wars. Remember, Britain created an opium epidemic in China in order to enslave the Chinese economy to the global financial system, right? That was the Opium Wars. Well, the same is happening today, where the Americans have basically created a Chinese dependency on US dollars, right? What's the Chinese dream? The Chinese dream is, work hard, get into a good school, get rich, move your money and your children to United States. That's a Chinese dream, all right, and if that's a dream, then eventually the civilization won't last very long. Am I wrong? Is that not is that not the Chinese dream? All right, all right. So now you have the covid crisis, where China is locked down for three years. Now, I'm a conspiracy theorist, okay, but you can make the argument that some of this was intentional in order to implode the Chinese economy. Why? Because Chinese economy had become a system of transferring wealth from China United States. So if it by imploding the economy, you're stopping this drainage. Okay, all right? This also led to rise of this man, Vladimir Putin, who is very much like Joseph Stalin. He understands the grand picture. He understands strategy, grand strategy. He understands that now it's time to strike. Why? Because America has created this crazy, fantastical system, right, where there's a hierarchy of prices in the American system, the Pax Americana. Many resources are the least valuable, okay, the basis of the resources, right? Which is what Russia has a lot of. Up next in this pyramid is manufacturing, which is what China does. Then up next is knowledge economy, so professionals, and that's what Europe in America does really well. Okay. Now the very top of this pyramid are the financiers, finance, and that's what Wall Street dominates. Okay, so this is the Pyramid of the world that we live in. What Putin said is this? What Putin said is, you know, what if I can control the world's resources, the oil, the food, then I can invert this pyramid so we sort of the top. And that's why you Russia invaded Ukraine, because if Russia were able to dominate Ukraine, Russia and Ukraine together would control 1/3 1/3 of the world's carbohydrates without Russian food, Africa and the Middle East would both starve to death, okay, and so that is the rationale for Putin's invasion of Ukraine. He's a genius. He understands there's fundamental weakness in the American system. If you're able to control the resources, you are able to strangle this financial system, okay, so by invading Ukraine, Putin shows that America is a paper tiger. Fate in the USD rests on the aura of American military's inability and invincibility. This now forces the Americans to invade Iran. Okay, does that make sense you guys, the logic here is very simple. Why does Saudi Arabia buy US dollars? Even though they know is that worth anything? What does Japan buy US dollars? What is Germany? The answer is, they're afraid that if they don't buy US dollars, America will come invade them. Okay, they have no choice in the matter. But now that Putin showed that actually, you know what, the American military is not as strong as you think it is. Think it is. The American military now has no choice but to prove it is as strong as people believe. It needs to restore faith in this, in the military, in order to restore faith in the US dollar. Does that make sense? That's why the American military has no choice in the matter but to invade Iran, okay? Why? Because, if they're able to invade Iran, they're able to control the entire flow of Middle East oil. Also, they're able to control the acts of trade throughout the world. Okay, Iran is really the centre of the world in terms of global trade. So these two factors mean that America needs to eventually invade Iran. All right? Once it invades Iran, it creates a huge problem for China and Japan and South Korea. Why? Because, guess what? These three nations gets most of this oil from the Middle East, right? Japan imports roughly 89% of its oil from the Middle East. And guess what, guys, Japan is the largest buyer of US dollars. So if Japan ever says, You know what, screw this, we're not buying US dollars, the American economy goes bankrupt. So when you invade Iran, you control the oil supply. You control the entire Japanese economy. You can charge whatever price you want for oil, all right, this explains the ISRAEL PALESTINE conflict, because Americans just can't go invade Iran for no reason. It needs a pretext. The perfect pretext is Israel comes to conflict with Iran. Iran attacks Israel, United States must now defend Israel, because Israel is its ally, right? Does that make sense? So America needs a scapegoat. That scapegoat is Israel. That explains why there's so much conflict right now in the Middle East. Look at this map. Okay? This is Iran. It's surrounded by American bases. You have 14,000 troops in Afghanistan. You've got, like, 1000s more over here. Okay, Iran. Iran is surrounded. It seems to me that America has been preparing to invade Iran for the past 20 years. It's just looking for the perfect opportunity.

Prof. Jiang  47:53  
All right. Problem though, is that Iran is not an adversary that America can defeat. The reason why is the geography of Iran. Look at this in 2003 America went to Iraq and destroyed Iraq. Why Iraq's a desert. It's flat planes. America has bombs. It has it has fighter planes, right? It's pretty easy to destroy a desert, but Iran, Iran is all mountains. These fighter planes do no good against mountains. You can't bomb a mountain into submission. Okay, so if America were to invade Iran, there's little, very little, chance that America would win this war. In fact, it may be the end of the American empire, and Putin has a plan. Okay? Putin is a genius. He knows exactly what will happen. So Putin is preparing for this possible invasion of Iran. So this is a really important picture. Putin sent an agreement with Kim Joon un the agreement is something called a mutual defence pact, which means that if North Korea is ever attacked, Putin would come to his aid. All right. Now, why would Putin do this? This is really strange. The answer is this. The answer is, if America attacks Iran, he needs to throw America off balance by creating a conflict somewhere else. The best place to create a conflict would be Southeast Asia. Right now, you would think, Wait a minute here, Putin and China are best friends. If America invades Iran, then China may invade Taiwan. But I already told you this, China is dependent on the American economy, so I do not believe this will happen. Okay, and Putin is fairly certain this won't happen either. That's why he's friends. He's now best friends with Kim Jong. Oh, because Kim Jong Un if he were to menace South Korea, that would throw the American military off balance, because now there is war on three fronts. Ukraine, South North Korea and Iran. Okay, that's a grand strategy of Putin. This is his trump card. Okay. Does that make sense? All right. Now what I'm saying here is this. I'm saying like, I know there's a conflict now between China and America. There's just trade war going on. But I think this will pass. I think there'll be a rapprochement between China and America, because both economies are dependent on each other, right? So I think this friendship between Putin and China won't last very long. There's also really a lot of geopolitical reasons why this friendship won't last very long, right? Because China and Russia have a lot of geopolitical conflicts, right? The shared border, they're trying to vibe for influence in the in Central Asia. There's lots of reasons why in the long term, China and Russia eventually have to break apart, which means that Putin now sees his best friend could be Germany. Okay, this is a this, this, I think are going to be the two big double geopolitical surprises next five years. First of all, America and China become best friends, or not best friends, but they'll have a rapprochement, and then Germany and Russia over approach meant, okay, all right, so, Donald Trump president United States. He wants a third term. Okay? He's creating everything he's doing right now is because he wants to be king of the United States. He wants a third term, okay? For a variety of reasons. Okay, I won't go into many reasons, okay, but he's not narcissistic. He has to, he has to solve a problem. This problem is the national debt, right? It's out $37 trillion you can't pay this off. You can never pay this off. But the theory is, there's a theory is like, as long as you are the greatest military in the world, as long as you can go invade everyone, you don't have to pay this off. You can, you can, you can constantly increase his debt. Okay, that's a theory. This explains the US China trade war. Everything that we're seeing today is because Donald Trump needs to come to an agreement with China for a variety of reasons. Okay. The first reason is Trump wants to invade Iran, and so he needs to be on good terms with China. Okay? Another reason is he needs people buy US dollars, right and right now there's a lot of financial repression in China, meaning that you can't convert Chinese currency into US currency. American investors aren't allowed to come to China and buy up China, the Chinese financial system. Trump wants trying to open up China. Trump needs to create more interdependency between China and the United States, okay, and that's why for Trump Chinese citizens and students in America, it's the ultimate leverage point in negotiations. Ask yourself, why this is happening? Why is it that your visas are being threatened? You want to go United States and spend a lot of money to get an American education, but Trump is saying no, we get to go your visa. Why is this happening? It's all part of negotiation. Okay? There's no way that America will shut off Chinese students because America needs that needs that money, okay? Well, without, without China spending money in America, well, Chinese wanting to purchase US dollars, the American economy will collapse. So there's no way that America will close its board, its door to Chinese students, but it needs trying to open up its economy, furthermore, to create more interdependency to save the US dollar. Okay, all right, so where am I getting these ideas like, like, am I just making this stuff up? So in this class, what you're taught is that history tends to repeat itself, and by studying history meticulously and thoroughly, we can get insight into the future. So what I want to show you now is there's a direct analogy between what's happening today what happened in Greece in about 400 BC. Okay, this is Thucydides, and he wrote a very famous book called The history of the Peloponnese war, which is what we discussed last semester. Now, the palace media war is a war between Athens and Sparta for hegemony on the Greek mainland. Okay, so in 480 Athens and Sparta were best friends. They fought against Persia, which was invading the Greek mainland, and at the Battle of Salamis, the Athenians basically destroyed the Persian navy, and the Persians were forced to retreat. But there was always a threat that Persia over here would come back invade Athens and Sparta, okay, as well. Throughout the agency are Greek islands and colonies that are afraid of Persian hegemony. So after the feat of the Persians, the Athenians got together with these. Colonies and create something called the Delian League. The daily league is like NATO. It's a defensive line Alliance. The Persians attack. Then this alliance will will defend together against the Persians. Now, the Athenians have the best Navy at this time, and the other islands are like, you know, we don't have a navy, but what we'll do is this, we'll give you our gold. Okay, so to all these islands, they put all their wealth on a place called Delos. This is why we have the Delian League name, okay? And this money is meant as a mutual Defence Fund. You're not supposed to touch it until, unless the Persians invade, in which case you use this money to defend against a person. Okay, that's the idea. And this worked out well, until the Athenians stole the money, right? Why? Because they want to create something called the Parthenon, okay, which is one of the most beautiful buildings in the world. And within the building, it's the statue of Athena. It's pure gold. Okay, so the Athenians stole all this money from Delos, from their allies, and they built this Parthenon, and the wealthy were able to steal from the Parthenon in the construction process. And so the citizens of Athens became really wealthy. It's easy money, right? And remember, easy money destroys a society. And so this is what led to the television war, because after Athens stole this money, it didn't, it didn't apologise to its allies. In fact, it forced its allies to continue to pay tribute to Athens. Athens became a mafia state. Okay? A protection record. If you don't give us money, then we'll come invade you. And so these allies started to encourage Sparta to attack Athens, and that's what led to the Peloponnese war. Okay? So there are three major incidents from the Peloponnese war that I want us to focus on. The first incident is in 428, BCE, a place called metellin, an island. They were a former Athenian ally who refused to pay tribute, so Athenians invade it and conquer it. Another question is, what do you do now? How do you teach these guys a lesson? How do you ensure this doesn't happen again? So one faction in Athens said, Let's kill the man. Okay, pretty simple, right? Let's go all the man, and then we'll, we'll spread fear among our allies, and no one will rebel against anymore. So they have a debate, and also didn't say, let's kill them all. So they sent a Trireme, a ship to the island and to give the orders to Athenian soldiers to kill everyone, well, not everyone, but the men and enslaved the woman and the children, okay? But after after the debate, the Athenians started to talk amongst

Prof. Jiang  57:53  
themselves, and a lot of them couldn't sleep, and they're like, This is wrong. We're Athenians. We are. We are a Democrat. We're democracy. We fight for freedom and liberty. We can't do this to our allies. So the very next morning, the Athenian citizens get together, says we're gonna have another debate, and we're gonna discuss what to do. And so they have this huge debate, and they said, No, we're Athenians. We're virtuous. We will not do this. So they sent another Trireme to catch up to the first tribe. And remember, the first Trireme is way ahead, right? They have a day's journey ahead. So the other Trireme, they work their their ass off to catch up to the first Trireme. And at the very last minute, they catch up, and they tell the soldiers not to kill the men. Okay? And so this is the cost between democracy and Empire right now. Let's fast forward to 416 and now another thing happens, where the Athenians are losing this war against spar it's cost them a lot of money. They're forced to melt down the statue of Athena, the goddess, and use the gold to pay for this, this war, okay? And so and so, the attitude changes, and now they're completely a mafia state. They don't care about democracy, don't care about virtue. All they want is for the allies to pay tribute. Okay? So they go invade an island called melos, and melos is not part of this war. They're not part Sparta, they're not part of Athens, they're just neutral. And then the Athenian said, We don't care. You pay tribute to us. They're basically like a mafia racket now, and the millennials say we're neutral. You have to respect our neutrality. And they didn't say in response, right? As the world goes, is only in question between equals and power, while the strong do what they can and the weak suffer what they must. All right? So, so 12 years later, they think it's like screw version. You screw democracy, screw liberty. Just give us money. All right, so remember this idea, Athenians wanted the trappings of Empire. They also want to feel virtuous. And over time, as Athens became more poor, they're like, Screw virtue, let's have an empire. And that's why, in 415 aka by 80s, who basically is a Trump of Athens at this time. Okay? He says to Athenian people, Hey guys, we're losing this war against Sparta, but don't worry, let's go invade more territory. Okay, so they decided to go invade Sicily, which was very wealthy. The problem, though, is that Sicily is pretty far away. Okay, remember, this is Athens. They're fighting this huge war in the agency against the Spartans, and they're gonna go and invade Sicily for its money, okay? And it's pretty far away, and it's not really well thought out. They don't really think about how to resupply the soldiers, and eventually their expedition gets wiped out at Syracuse. Okay, so it's a disaster for the Athenians, and it turns the war in favour of the Spartans. Athens is so bad that that everyone gets together, the entire world gets together to destroy Athens the Persians. Remember, the Persians were the enemies of both Sparta and Athens, right? The Persians start to finance the Spartans, and the Spartans eventually lay siege to Athens and defeat the Athenians. Okay, so why is this important? Well, because history, history shouldn't repeat itself. Okay, there's gonna be a lot of similarities between the position pelo, pagan war and an American empire today. First similarity is NATO. Remember, the Athenians have the Dalian League, and the Americans have NATO. And NATO is meant to be a defensive alliance. But if that's the case, then why is it that the Nord Stream pipeline got destroyed? Remember, the Nord Stream pipeline, it sends cheap gas from Russia to Germany. The German economy is use cheap Russian resources, primarily gas manufacturing the best cars in the world and sell to China, okay, but because of this war in Ukraine, America not only limited, basically embargoed Russian gas to Germany, which destroyed the Russian economy. But some people even say that the Americans destroy the pipeline. Okay, so the Americans are attacking their own allies. Trump has said that Americans take over Greenland and Canada. Why? Because they're wealthy, they have lots of resources, and also they're not really strong militaries, right? Trump, he's like a mafia godfather. America is behaving like a mafia system today. Now, what America is doing is forcing Europe to rearm itself so, so this is Germany, and Germany, Britain, France, they've all announced this huge military budget. And so you're like, Okay, does this mean that we'll have world war three? Well, America doesn't think like that. America isn't like, you know, like, let's fight Russia. America is like, how can we exploit our allies further right? And so you can make the argument that this is not really about fighting the Russians. It's really about getting their allies, France, Germany and Britain to buy expensive and crappy American weapons. Remember the military industrial complex, right? The entire point is not to fight the Russians. The Russians are just a pretext and excuse. The real purpose is get the Europeans to buy expensive American weapons. It's really a shakedown. Okay, all right, so all around the world there's protests about what's happening in the Middle East, right? These are huge protests, protesting what's happening in Gaza today, but ultimately, it's not gonna matter. All right? Why? Because America's an empire. It's a mafia state. It needs to destroy Iran in order to maintain its power. Okay? So Americans want the trumpets of Empire. They also want to feel virtuous. That's why there's conflict right now. Over time, as America becomes poorer and poorer, more and more desperate, this virtue will go away, and the raw, brutal power of America will express itself throughout the world. And this will eventually lead to us. Lead us to the final conflict, the war between Iran and the United States. Iran has been, has been preparing for a long time, okay, ever since 1979 America's been preparing for a long time. This conflict is world war three. I can't. I cannot overstate how brutal this conflict will be. It will lead to fundamental changes in the world. Our lives will never be the same again. Everything that we've known in the past is now gone forever, and we have to prepare for a new future. So I leave you with a message, okay, I know that this class has been depressing. You've been with me for a year now. It's been very depressing. Okay, because we've gone into the heart of darkness of humanity, and I know that the world looks more and more terrible. But remember this, okay, and this my final message to you. Remember this, the greatest minds of humanity, which include Homer, Dante, Immanuel, Kant, they've all told us this. They've all told us one secret of the universe, one message, which is this, the imagination is the animating, animating force of the universe. Love is a unifying force of the universe. Okay, what this means is this which. What this means is that in the darkest times when all hope has been lost, when there's only despair, any of us, you, me, you, any one of us, can rise up, stand up and be the light to lead humanity forward, okay, and that's a task ahead of us if we are to save humanity in this darkest of times. Okay, so remember this, we all have the capacity to imagine. We all have the capacity to love. That's what makes us human. In the worst times, we must defend our own humanity. Okay, so that is it. Thank you so much. You.

