Prof. Jiang  0:00  
Okay, good morning. So last class, we talked about the central paradox in Christianity, what Jesus believes is different from what Christianity teaches us about Jesus. Okay, so let's go over. Let's review what Jesus believes he teaches and what Christianity teaches us about Jesus. Okay, so Jesus, remember that Jesus is one of our great spiritual leaders and geniuses like the Buddha, and there's a three tier approach to his religion or philosophy. There's an inner approach which does secret teachings, his secret understanding of the world. There's an inner Lear, which is what he teaches His disciples. And then there's a public Lear, which is what he tells other people in public, in the public Lear, we know very well he believes in generosity, in mercy, in focusing on being a good and kind person, the inner Lear, we also know very well, he demands that the people follow him, give up all worldly possessions and pursuits. If you're rich, if you want to follow Him, then you must abandon all your wealth. And he demands self sacrifice from all his apostles, okay? And then there's a secret layer, which is the philosophy that underpins all these religious teachings. And the secret is that this world we live in is false, and what's really true is the divine spark within us that allows us to connect to the true reality of the monad, or the one the world that we live in is being controlled by a monster, and that's why you should hate the rich. You should pity the rich, because the rich are pursuing what is false, and in the pursuit of what is false it is it is causing them to feel anger and self hatred. So Jesus has this great metaphor, and what he says is that the pursuit of wealth is like drinking salt water. Okay, the more you drink, the more thirsty you become, and you feel it's because you have not drunk enough. So you drink more and more salt water, and eventually you will poison yourself, right? So that's how he feels about the pursuit of wealth. It will it is poisonous, it will only lead to your ultimate demise, and that's why it's important to focus instead on our humanity, on our connection of others. That's why it's important to be compassionate, and you should be most be compassionate towards the rich, because you're the ones who are most guided, who are the ones who are most misguided and deluded. Okay, so that's the Jesus, and again, his teachings are no different from, say, Buddhist teachings or Hindu teachings or Zoroastrian teachings. Okay, so all these major religions are aligned in this belief. But then you have the Bible, the Jesus of the Bible, and the Jesus of the Bible is portrayed very differently. Right in the Bible, Jesus is the Son of God, and there's a conflict between God and humanity. Remember, we humans committed the original sin. We disobeyed Him and ate from the fruit of the tree of knowledge and good and evil, and therefore God banished us from Paradise, and ever since, we've been living in misery, God expects us to acknowledge our failings and ask for forgiveness, but because we are ignorant and misguided and sinful, we refuse to apologise. Therefore Jesus has to return, has to come to earth and sacrifice himself in the crucification, has to crucify himself in order to atone for our sins and to wash us of our passage so that we we can begin anew. Okay, and after he has completed the sacrifice, he has become resurrected, and he now ascends to heaven, and he prepares for the day when he will return and destroy all evil. And. Build an eternal paradise on earth, and this is what is known as the Second Coming okay? And this is an extremely powerful story, but it's also very complicated and in many ways contradictory, okay, so if Jesus is a son of God, then what is God's role in this? And how does a son of God, a God, actually die on Earth? And why does he have to die first before he can return again? Okay, so there are a lot of contradictions in the story that you don't have in the first Jesus teachings. All right, so the question I want to ask today is, well, how did we get from here? Okay, Jesus teaching us about the Kingdom of God, that the kingdom of God is within us and accessible to all who are willing to do good to this idea, which demands that we believe that Jesus is a son of God who came to sacrifice himself to redeem us from our sins, and He will eventually return to bring eternal paradise to earth. All right, these are two very different worldviews. So how do we get from here to here? Okay, so a lot of the clue lies in the Bible and the story of Jesus in the Bible. So what's interesting about the Jesus story is Jesus gets into trouble when he goes into Jerusalem, before he was in the provinces, and he was building a large following. He was healing people, he was spreading the kingdom of God message, and he was very popular, and he was very safe, but then he got he went into Jerusalem, and he ran afoul of the religious elite in Jerusalem, the high priest, and eventually they rallied the Jewish people against Jesus, and they persecuted him, okay. And eventually Jesus was betrayed by a name named Judas Iscariot, one of His followers. And the Jews brought Jesus before Pontius Pilate, the Roman governor of Judea. And at first, Pontius Pilate refused to punish him, but the Jews insisted, and so upon his Pilate had to eventually crucify Jesus in order to satisfy the will of the Jewish people. Okay, now this story is constructed in a way that's very, very clever in history, who was also persecuted by his own people, which caused his death. You guys remember which truth teller? Exactly? Okay, Socrates, right. So this story reminds us of Socrates, right, the persecution of a truth teller, a Socrates right, a reminder of Socrates. Now let me ask you another question. Who else was betrayed by his own followers? Julius Caesar, right? You see how clever This is. The two most famous individuals in world history at this point, Socrates and Julius Caesar are brought into the story of Jesus, so that it conflates all three together. Jesus is Socrates is Julius Caesar, all right? That's very, very clever, and you can only do this you have a very nuanced understanding of Greek history, Roman history, and the Jewish Bible, the Hebrew Bible, right? And in fact, at this time, there are individuals who possess all three sets of knowledge, and they are called Hellenized Jews in the Roman Empire, right? If you are a Hellenized Jew, meaning you grew up with a Greek education and you're the Roman Empire, you have access to all three major sets of knowledge, the Hebrew Bible, Greek philosophy and Roman history, okay? And the major individual in the Bible who is a Hellenized Jew in the Roman Empire is named Paul, and He is credited with most of the writing of the New Testament, about a third of the New Testament, which is the Christian Bible, either is written by Paul, or it's about Paul in. It.

Prof. Jiang  10:01  
So that's why we believe that not Jesus, but Paul, is the real founder of Christianity. Christianity, again, is not by Jesus. It's not a religion by Jesus Jesus, it's a religion about Jesus, and there's a difference. Okay, now let's talk about the life and times of Paul, because it's a very interesting story, okay? And again, everything I'm telling you comes from the Bible, a book called acts of apostles, which is about what happens after Jesus dies. You me.

Prof. Jiang  10:46  
Okay? So after Jesus dies, his brother James the Just becomes leader of his movement. Okay? And they're often called the poor in but they're often called the poor. Why? Because they're focused on a life that denies worldly goods. Okay? They believe this mature reality we live in, it's evil, and we have to focus on the spiritual life. And that's why they demand poverty. Okay, that's why they themselves are poor, and they demand everyone who believes in them are also poor. And the word for them is called Ebionites. And this is important, because the immunites will eventually leave Jerusalem, where they are now, and go to Arabia, where they will help found the religion of Islam. Okay, so I want you guys to keep this in mind. Okay, so James adjust and his followers, they're in Jerusalem. And what this tells us is, if they're in Jerusalem and they're not from Jerusalem, then they are being protected and honoured by the Jewish elite. Okay, and this, again, is evidence that it was not the Jews who killed Jesus. It was the Romans who killed Jesus. Because if the Jews killed Jesus, and all his followers, would have to leave Jerusalem, right? But after his death, they're all in Jerusalem, basically, okay. So this is a major contradiction in the Bible. Let's talk about Paul, who is Paul? We actually know very little about the early life of Paul. We know that he's from a place called Tarsus, which is part of the Jewish Diaspora. Okay, he himself is Jewish. He's a Roman citizen, and that's pretty rare for a Jewish person. And you only get citizenship by doing three things. The first thing is, you're born of citizens, which is part of the case with Paul, okay. He tells us in the Bible, I'm born a Roman citizen, therefore my parents are citizens, which means his parents were very wealthy and part of the Roman elite, okay. Second thing, the second way you get citizenship is by being a soldier for 20 years, and the third way is through service to the emperor. The emperor honours you with citizenship if you have shown devotion and service. Okay, so it's very hard to be a Roman citizen, but Paul is a Roman citizen, and as a woman citizen, he grew up secular. He grew up learning Greek rhetoric. He learned Socrates, Plato, Homer, all that, okay? For whatever reason, he converts and becomes a Pharisee. Okay. Remember, Pharisees are Jewish priests who eventually will become rabbis. And as a Pharisee, he's very fanatical. We know that if you convert, you actually, you actually become very fanatical, okay? And as a Pharisee, he was tasked with destroying the Jesus movement. And that kind of makes no sense, because we just said that if James suggests and the followers of Jesus are in Jerusalem, that means they are being protected and honoured by the Pharisees, right? So this is actually a major contradiction that no one has actually explained to us, okay, but you'll see a lot of these contradictions in the Bible. Okay. Anyway, the story continues. He's a Pharisee, and he's fanatical about destroying the Jesus movement because it is heresy. It is Jesus thinks of himself as a Messiah, and he's not okay. Eventually, Paul decides to go to Damascus to destroy the Jesus movement in Damascus, but on the road there, he sees the light, okay? He sees the light, and it's Jesus talking to him and saying, Paul, stop persecuting me and my people. And then Paul, at this point, has something called the Damascus moment, okay? The Damascus moment moment is a very famous metaphor in English. It means to see the light and to change your opinion, okay, and to convert into the. True belief, and at this point, Paul becomes a fanatical follower of Jesus, even though he's never met Jesus, and he's never met the followers of Jesus, this is extremely weird, okay, but he becomes a fanatical follower of Jesus, and he decides he's going to spread the message of Jesus to everyone, okay? And the way you do that is you just go to synagogues and tell Jews that Jesus is the Messiah, okay? And eventually he will begin to build the structure in the organisation of Christianity. Right now, they're not called Christians, they're still Jews, and Jesus and his followers are considered a branch of Judaism, okay, but there's some major differences. The first major difference is Paul believes that Jesus is the Messiah. And what's really important is he teaches us that through faith in Jesus, you will achieve salvation. This is very different from what Jesus Himself taught. It is through good works that you will achieve salvation, but Paul teaches us, no, it is believed in Jesus as a saviour that will offer you salvation. The good works don't matter. It's the belief of faith in Jesus that matters. Okay, that's the first thing, second thing that seven of all Paul is he's focused on organisation and structure. Jesus and his followers were very egalitarian. They didn't believe in organisation, they didn't believe in hierarchy, they didn't believe in structure. But Paul insists only if you have hierarchy and organisation and structure will you have the ability to fully promote Jesus's message to the people. Okay, so he's putting churches around the Roman Empire. For Paul, what mattered first and foremost was to convert as many people as possible, because belief in Jesus meant salvation. So we have a duty to save as many people as possible. Okay, so it's important to make compromises, for example, circumcision. So there were many in the Jewish Diaspora around the Roman Empire who weren't circumcised. Why? Because the fathers were Greek and the mothers were Jewish. And Paul felt it was very important to bring these people into the religion. And so he basically said, You know what? If you're not if you're 20 years old, you're not circumcised, don't worry about it. What the law doesn't matter. What matters is your faith in Jesus. Okay, so these are the three radical changes that Paul makes to the religion that's being developed around Jesus. Okay? And as you can imagine, this is pissing off Jewish people, especially back in Jerusalem. So James the Just hears about this from all his Jewish friends, and say this guy, Paul, go around through an empire and teaching everyone that it's not important to follow Jewish law and customs. It's not important to be Jewish. What's important is to believe in Jesus. And so James suggests and Paul start to have a major argument. Okay? James suggests is writing a pause says, Paul, what's going on? Why are you telling people you don't have to follow Jewish law. And Paul writes back and says, what matters is not the letter of the law. What matters is the spirit of the law. If Jesus has come and he's a saviour, then believing in Him is what matters. And we need to get as many people to believe in Jesus as possible. Okay, so, for example, Gentiles, non Jews, want to believe in Jesus, but they're 20 to 30 to 40. How can they circumcise themselves? I'm just trying to open up the religion. I am the apostle to the Gentiles. Okay, so Paul names himself apostle to the Gentiles, the non Jews. I am liberating this religion for all. I am bringing this religion to everyone, Greek and Jew alike, Greek, Roman and Jew alike. Eventually, this conflict becomes so bitter that James suggests spreads rumours about Paul and many. Many of Paul's churches now start to abandon him. Okay? Because remember, James the Just is Jesus' brother. Okay, so there's an authority. It's James the Just, not Paul. And Paul becomes very angry. Paul tries many, many tricks. For example, he tries to bribe James the Just by offering him money. Okay? He also writes letters complaining about James the judge, and saying, Well, just because you're Jesus brother doesn't mean you know what he actually says. Because Jesus talked to me, man, Jesus came to me in a vision, therefore I'm the one who really understands Jesus.

Prof. Jiang  20:36  
All right. Eventually, Paul decides, you know what this conflict is so bad everyone's leaving me that I have to go to Jerusalem and sort things out with James. Okay, so he goes to Jerusalem and he meets with James, and at first the meaning goes well, but then in Jerusalem, the people who don't like Paul recognise him, and they start to mob him. Okay, they want to kill this guy. And what's really interesting about how this is written is it's very similar to the Jesus story, where Jesus is being mobbed by by by Jews, okay? And at this point, okay, Paul is about to be ripped apart by the Jewish mob. But then Roman soldiers, come and save him, and Paul does something that's different from Jesus. Paul tells Roman soldiers, I am a Roman citizen. And the soldiers are like, Oh, wow. Okay, then we must protect you. We must ensure that you get fair treatment. Okay? And so Paul is brought to the Roman governor, and the Roman governor doesn't believe that Paul has broken any laws, but there's Jewish mob out there who want to kill him. Okay, so now Paul says to the governor, let me talk to the Roman emperor. I will make my case before the Roman Emperor and the governor is like, well, then I have no choice. I no longer have the authority to judge you myself. You, as a Roman citizen, have the right to talk to the Roman emperor. So therefore I will send soldiers with you to Rome to be judged by the Roman Emperor himself. Okay? And so if you actually read the Bible, these two stories between Jesus and Paul, you will see how, how many parallels and similarities there are. Okay? The difference is this. The difference is, Paul is a Roman citizen. Jesus is not. Therefore Jesus was killed because he was not a Roman citizen. Does that make sense? If Jesus were a Roman citizen, he could preach all he wants, okay? He could say whatever he wants, but he wasn't, and therefore he was killed. So then Paul goes back to Rome, and this is how the Acts of the Apostles ends. Okay, let's read it together, because the way it is written is extremely fascinating. When we come into Rome, Paul was allowed to live by himself with a soldier who was guarding him. This makes no sense. Paul is a criminal. The Jews are accusing Paul of violating their laws. Paul has returned to Rome to be judged by the Roman emperor, but this is what the Bible says. Paul was allowed to live by himself. He was being guarded by a soldier who was protecting him. That's a contradiction. What's going on here? Okay, but then it gets more interesting. Next paragraph, three days later, he called together the local leaders of the Jews. What? This makes no sense. The Jews consider him a criminal, yet he has the power and authority to call all the major Jewish local leaders of Rome into his house for a meeting who gave him this power. From the perspective of Jews, he is a criminal. He's asking people to break the laws of Moses. What's going on here? Then when they assemble, he said to them, okay, this is him talking to them, brothers, though, had done nothing against our people or their cousins or ancestors. So you see nine any wrongdoing, right, but he clearly committed wrong, because circumcision guys and we talked about this, circumcision is how Jews know they are a chosen people. There's a covenant between Abraham and Yahweh God. The covenant is the Abraham and his ancestors will circumcise themselves as a mark of allegiance to Yahweh. In return, Yahweh will give them a promised land. You. Okay, so circumcision is core to what it means to be Jewish. In fact, it's the main feature of being Jewish. And here Paul tells people, Oh, you don't have to circumcise yourself. So he's clearly breaking the customs and laws of their ancestors. He's saying, Nope, I didn't do anything wrong, okay? And again, these are Jewish leaders who know for fact, Paul is guilty of this, but the people, but the Jews, don't speak up, and Paul continues. Yet, I was arrested in Jerusalem, and then over the Romans, when they had examined me, the Romans want to release me, okay, because there was no reason for the death penalty. In my case, the Romans wanted to let me go, but the Jews insisted that I be killed. So it was the Romans who saved me, right? But the Jews objected. I was compelled to appeal to the Emperor. Okay? So when the Jews wanted to kill me, I told the governor, listen, there's higher authority than you, and it's the Emperor, and I want to go speak to the Emperor. The governor had no choice but to send guards, soldiers to take me to Rome to be tried by the Emperor. And now, okay, this is the most important sentence, even though I had no charge to bring against my nation, what Paul is saying is this. Paul is saying, when i i want i could go talk to the Emperor, but like talk to the Emperor, then it's because I accuse my people, the Jews, of a crime against a Roman citizen. You understand? So what he's doing, it's very clever, is he's making a real threat to the Jewish leaders of Rome. If you mess with me, I'm no direct to the Emperor and accuse you guys of attacking Roman citizen. Do you guys understand this. You see how radical This is. This. This speech is radically different from the story before in the Bible. So, gee, Paul is accusing the Jews of committing a crime, whereas before the Jews were accusing Paul committing a crime. And what Paul is saying is like, I'm right, there's access to the Emperor. You don't Okay? And this is how the Bible, this is how the book ends, okay, the acts of apostles, this is how it ends. He lived there two whole years at his expense. He's clearly very wealthy, right? Proclaiming the kingdom of God and teaching about the Lord Jesus Christ with all boldness and about hindrance no one can touch this guy. This is how the story of Paul ends. He's in Rome. He can do whatever he wants, and no one can touch him. All right, so who is this guy? How can he do this? He's in Jerusalem. The mob is trying to kill him. The Roman soldiers come and save him. He and he goes back to Rome, and he tells the Jewish leaders there, hey guys, don't mess with me. And they leave him alone. And some even convert. Who is this guy, Paul? All right, so that's a question. So any questions so far?

Prof. Jiang  28:41  
All right. So again, there are a lot of questions in the story of Paul that don't make any sense. Okay, the first thing that doesn't make sense is like, Who is this guy? Right? He has all this power and money, and he can do whatever he wants, and no one can touch him, All right, so that's the first big question. Second question is, why does he convert? Right? His conversion story doesn't make any sense. We're like, Okay, well, because he saw Jesus. Okay, that's fine. But guess what? Guys after Jesus talks to him, Jesus sort of disappears from the story. And you would think that, if Jesus was so important to Paul, Paul would quote from Jesus, right? But he doesn't quote from Jesus. Jesus has a lot of message, a lot of sayings, but Paul rarely quotes from him. But not only that, we already said that the message of Jesus, the message of Paul, are very different. Jesus believed the kingdom of God was within us for our generosity, for. Mercy, we can achieve salvation. Paul taught everyone, it's believe in Jesus that will allow you to achieve salvation. And only believe in Jesus, you can do as much good as you want, but if you don't believe in Jesus, you'll be damned to hell. So all those Buddhists, all those Hindus, all those Zoroastrians who are doing good in the world, too bad they will be burned in hell, and that goes against a lot of the teachings of Jesus. Okay, so he did convert, but he's not spreading the gospel of Jesus. All right. All right. Another question then is, why is he focusing on organisation? Why is he focused on organisation? The heart of religion is spiritual truth, right? But Paul doesn't really care about that. He cares about the organisation, the church, who's in charge how many members we're attracting, how we can appeal to them more, how to resolve internal political disputes within the church. That's what he cares about. That's very odd. And then the last question then is, why does Why does he get in trouble with the Jews, and why did the Romans save him? Okay, so these are questions. Now let's first go over the Christian explanation. And the Christian explanation is Paul was part of divine plan. Okay, so Jesus brought truth into the world. Right? The truth of Jesus, that's what Jesus teaches. But it was Paul who created the structure in the organisation that allowed Christianity to spread. Okay? So a analogy or or a comparison is a sort of McDonald's. McDonald's, you guys don't know McDonald's, right? Well, guess what? In 1950s McDonald's was one restaurant in California. It had amazing hamburgers, and it didn't have the best hamburgers. And a man named Ray Kroc visited this restaurant, and it was being run by the McDonald brothers. That's why it's called McDonald's. Okay. When Ray Kroc says to the to the brothers, you know why you guys have an amazing restaurant, let me scale it out, let me convince others to open McDonald's around America and the world. This is called the franchise model, okay? The franchise model, the franchise model. And so the brother says, Yeah, sure. And what way cock did was he drove everywhere like Paul, and he had these meetings like Paul, where he convinced people of American dream like Paul, Ray Kroc said to everyone, if you open McDonald's, you will get rich and you will live the American dream, right? Paul said to everyone, if you believe in Jesus, you will achieve salvation. And because WIC was such a amazing salesperson, McDonald's eventually became the largest restaurant empire in the world, right? Same thing with Paul, because Paul was just a convincing salesman, Christianity became the most dominant religion in the world. So this is all part of God's plan, okay? It's very similar to the story of McDonald's. Here's a problem, guys, Jesus was not selling hamburgers. In fact, Jesus hated hamburgers, right? The central message of Jesus is, wealth is wrong. Business is wrong. Hierarchy is wrong. What matters is the spiritual truth in your heart.

Prof. Jiang  34:11  
All right, so even though this is the Christian belief that both are part of the divine plan, and Paul was doing. Paul was basically Jesus' business manager. Okay, problem is Jesus didn't want a business manager, and Jesus believed that it was our own individual responsibility to discover our own truths through him. Okay, so what are some other explanations for Paul? Okay, all right, so, I mean, the most basic answer for people who hate Paul is he was just an opportunist, a charlatan, okay? He saw a business opportunity. Everyone loved Jesus. Is, Jesus was had gone viral, right? He had gone viral, and he was a meme now around the world. And so he wanted to Evangeline. He wanted to monetize that. The problem with this is he worked really hard man. He travelled around all he travelled all around the Roman Empire to spread the message. He was fanatical about it, okay? And opportunists are not fanatical. They're kind of lazy. So I don't really buy this idea that he was opportunist. He really believed in what he was doing. He was driven by a sense of mission, okay? And also, guys, remember, if he's a Roman citizen and his parents are Roman citizens, and he's probably wealthy himself. He doesn't really need this money. Also, what's important for us to understand is Paul comes from a very well educated background. He's very wealthy. He speaks Greek. He writes Greek beautifully. He's constantly educated. He doesn't want to deal with James the Just who is not well educated, right? He doesn't, he doesn't want to deal with these people. So why is he dealing with these people, right? So I don't really buy this explanation. Another explanation is secret conspiracy. The idea here is Paul, and maybe many who supported him hated the Roman Empire, and they believed Christianity would be a weapon that would eventually destroy the Roman Empire, which is what happened historically. That's 340, years in the future. How can Paul know that? And also, what does Paul have against the Roman Empire? Really? Right? He's beneficiary of the Roman Empire. He's wealthy. His parents are wealthy. All right. So another explanation, which, by the way, I've never heard before, but which I do believe, all right, so take this with a grain of salt, but I believe he was a spy for the Roman Empire. All right, here's a spy. Okay, so let me explain the idea here. What is he doing and All right, so the Jews have always been a problem for empires, both the Greek Empire and the Roman Empire. Why? Because the Greeks and the Romans are pagans. They celebrate pagan gods, but the Jews believe that their God is the only God, and every other god is false, and so they refused the authority of the empire. And this has led to many wars, okay, from 167 to 160 C BCE, there's been called the Maccabean revolt against the solution Empire. They lasted seven years, killed a lot of people. Okay? And then there'll be the Romans and the Jews. Will fight three major wars, from 66 to 73 CE, this is around the time of Paul the first war will be fought. The Romans will burn the temple down and ban all Jews from Jerusalem, and the Romans fake through this aggression, the Jews will be cowed. They'll be scared, right? No, no, no. It makes them even more angry, so that two more wars are fought, from 115 to 117 and then the third war will be from 132 to 136 Okay, so the Jews are fanatical. That's what gives the Jews power. They're a poor province of the Roman Empire, but they're fanatical. And guess what? Romans respect fanaticism. Remember 216 BCE Hannibal invades Italy, and he destroys all the Roman armies again who are against him in the Battle of cannae, he has killed at least 20% of the Roman adult male population and a third of the Senate. And at this point, the Romans should have surrendered and taught peace, right? The Romans are fanatical. They refuse to surrender, and eventually they're able to destroy Carthage. Okay, so now the Romans see the Jews who again, it's a poor, small province in the Roman Empire, and they continue to rebel. So this fanaticism of the Jews, it both scares and awes the Romans. They understand the Romans above all, understand. Understand how powerful fanaticism

Prof. Jiang  40:08  
is. Financing is the ultimate weapon. It cannot be defeated. And because there's a diaspora, a Jewish Diaspora, can never be rooted out. Okay, you can destroy Jerusalem, which is what they did, but there are Jews all around the world, so you can never destroy this fanaticism. And because of the long history of the Jews, this fanaticism only grows through persecution and through suffering. Okay, so you have to somehow destroy this fanaticism if you are to win this war against the Jews? And there are three central beliefs underlying this Jewish fanaticism, all right. The first is the idea of purity. Why is it that if the Jews are God's chosen people. They're always being pushed around by these larger empires like the Assyrians, the Babylonians, the Persians, the Greeks and the Romans. And the answer is, because we Jews have not been pure enough. We have not been loyal enough to Yahweh. So it is only through purity that will allow us to eventually triumph over our enemies. Okay, otherwise, we will continue to be bullied by others. Second is the idea of persecution complex. It's the persecution complex, the entire world is against us because we are God's chosen people, and therefore we must stand united and stay pure. Who the Jews really hated were the Jews who assimilated like Paul, right? They hated these people because they were traitors to the nation of Israel. Second belief, and there's a third belief, which is the coming of the Messiah. Don't worry about today, okay, this pain, this suffering, this persecution, it's all part of the vine plan. It's testing us. It is making us strong. Eventually, the Messiah, the Anointed One, will come from heaven and lead us into a final battle against all enemies, the Roman Empire, and we will destroy them. And when then we will establish the nation of God, the kingdom of heaven on earth. Okay? And so these are the three major beliefs that underpin Jewish fanaticism. And it makes the Jews almost invincible, because it makes them fearless. They're not afraid to die. Dying is part of the vine plant. Suffering is all part of a process of achieving the Kingdom of Heaven on Earth, it's a responsibility to die for the faith. Okay, all right. So now that we understand this Jewish fanaticism, we can now understand why Paul is doing what he's doing, right? Think about this. Purity means absolute obedience to the law of Moses, right? But what Paul's saying is no guys circumcision. Cision is we don't we don't have to enforce circumcision because we want more non Jews into our religion. Okay, why circumcision such a big deal? Well, because circumcision is basically what separates the Jews into a different group of people in any community. Why? Because in most cities, there's a place called gymnasium. Gymnasium is really the heart and centre of life in the community. It's where where men go to do sports and athletics like wrestle and run, okay? The thing I love to gymnasium is everyone goes in naked, right? And why is this a problem? Because if you're Jewish, people know right away you're Jewish, therefore it's hard for you to go into gymnasium. You're being ridiculed by the Greeks. Therefore there's no way for the Jews to associate with the Greeks and other people. Does that make sense? That's why circumstantial is so important. Once you out, once you say to the Jewish people, you don't need to be circumcised, you just have to have faith in Jesus. That's easier for them to assimilate into the larger culture around them, right? Persecution, persecution complex. Jews are being per. Persecuted? Why? Because they're not Roman citizens, right? Let's go back to the story of Jesus. Why did he get persecuted? Why did he die? Because he was not a Roman citizen. If he were a Roman citizen, then Pius Pilate would have protected him from the Jews who wanted to kill him, just like how the Roman soldiers protected Paul from those Jews wanted to kill him. So guys focus on being a Roman citizen, and you can believe anything you want. You will no longer be persecuted. You'll be part of the Roman Empire right now. Last thing is the command of Messiah, right? Jews believe the Messiah is going to come and lead them into final victory against all their enemies, especially Roman Empire. But what Paul is saying is this, that Messiah has already come. He's Jesus, and Jesus taught a message of eternal salvation, internal salvation, to recognise the evil within you and to become a better person. So if you are if you want to be saved, you must believe that we are born evil, and Jesus has come to cleanse us of our evil. Jesus was a prophet of peace. He had nothing against the Roman Empire. He was fighting against evil in the world. Okay, so if these three things are true, then fanaticism will be destroyed. Now, obviously, if you're a fanatic, you don't believe any of this crap, okay? But Paul's message was not for fanatical Jews. They were still minority. His message were for diaspora Jews like him, who were stuck between the Roman Empire and the Jewish faith, right? They were part of the Jewish Diaspora. Maybe their fathers were Greek and the mothers were Jewish, okay? And these are a lot of people, so Paul's message was, for these people, you can still be Jewish if you believe in Jesus, and once you believe in Jesus, then you can now assimilate into the wind Empire, and this will free you to believe whatever you want. Okay, so this is Paul's mission. Now then the question then is, Why is Paul doing this? Why would Paul do this? And I think the answer is this. I don't want to say Paul is opportunist or he's evil. I believe he was also a believer in his mission. His mission was what to save his people if you want to continue to live with the Roman Empire, you have to adapt yourself. You have to make compromises. You can't wait for the Messiah to come save you have to save yourself by adapting to the Roman Empire. And look, there are lots of advantages to Roman Empire. You can become very happy and prosperous if you've played by the rules of the Roman Empire like he did. Okay. So in many ways, What's odd about Paul is he teaches us that Jesus is the Messiah, but in his heart, and you can tell by his writings, he himself believes he's really the Messiah who has come to save his people, and that's why he's so fanatical about building a church of Christianity, the church that will eventually become Christianity. Okay, again, at this point in history, they're not Christians, they're still Jews. Okay?

Prof. Jiang  49:07  
But there will be a lot of consequences, because Paul is doing this, he rightly changes the meaning of faith and religion, all right? Because, again, the story of Jesus doesn't really make any sense, and his story doesn't make any sense either. Okay? He's lying. He's lying about who he is. So he creates a new concept. He radically changes the concept of faith. Okay? Before faith is what you experience now, faith is something that you must believe, right? He introduces the idea of miracles. Now,

Prof. Jiang  49:54  
if something can be explained, it's because it's a miracle, all right? And this is a new idea that didn't really didn't exist before, and the use of miracles is to explain the contradictions or the inconsistencies in the story of the Bible. So that's one major revolution of Paul's teachings. Another is the idea of tradition. Tradition is more important than the Bible. Okay, so the stories, interpretation of the Bible is now more important than the Bible itself, and the Paul's Church will eventually become the Catholic Church. And one thing about the Catholic Church is you are not allowed to read the Bible. The Bible is sacred. It's forbidden. Only priests are allowed to read the Bible, because the fear is, if you read the Bible, you might misinterpret the Word of God. Okay, you don't have the spiritual power in order to fully interpret the Bible properly. Okay? You

Prof. Jiang  51:03  
right, okay, so there are lots of major changes to the idea of religion because of Paul's work. All right, so that is my central argument about Paul. Are there any questions about any of this? Yes, compare and contrast with so as you mentioned, the

Unknown Speaker  51:40  
Bible is

Prof. Jiang  51:55  
that quite similar? Okay, you have a question about Islam. Can we? Can we save Islam for later on? Yeah, but I'll answer that when Islam, okay, that's weak.

Prof. Jiang  52:19  
Okay, that's a great question like, who wrote the acts of apostles? All right? So we don't know who wrote the acts of apostles, okay, but this, this is what we do know. Whoever wrote the acts of apostles was written by the guy who wrote Luke, okay, the gospel of Luke, which is one of the four main Gospels of the Bible. Why? Because the apostles is the continuation of the story of Jesus found in Luke. Whoever wrote Luke is also a person who wrote ask the apostles. That's the first thing we know. Something that we know is the Luke gospel was written maybe between 80 and 90 CE Okay, so this about 50 to 60 years after the death of Jesus. Okay, and Paul might still be alive at this time. What we also know is this act of apostles is very pro Paul. Okay, so what's important understand is the story I'm telling you is a story that comes from individuals who are trying to promote a positive picture of Paul. And why are they doing that? Because at this point in history, there are a lot of people, especially Jews, who hate Paul. They feel that Paul has corrupted their religion, especially the teachings of Jesus and and I believe it's at this point in history because of the way that Paul behaves. It's an open secret that he's working very closely with the Roman Empire. He's either collaborator or He's a spy, okay? And that's why they have to write the acts of apostles to sort of like, apologise or to clean up the image of Paul. And again, we've seen this throughout history, right? Remember, the Bible started out as an apology for King David, so this is extremely sympathetic towards Paul. And again, what we're showing you is that for close reading, you can see how problematic, problematic it is, right?

Prof. Jiang  54:31  
Okay, so does that answer your question? All right, any more questions? No.

Prof. Jiang  54:47  
Okay, all right, great, so let's talk about next class. Okay, next class, we will talk about monotheism, the coming of the. Monotheism, okay? Because this is a revolution in human history and human thought. All right, so there are many scholars who believe that monotheism means believe in one God. What I will show you next class is monotheism. It's a radical reconception of reality, okay, and that's what I will teach you next class. So.

