Prof. Jiang  0:00  
Okay, good morning. Today. We do China. Obviously, we are in China, and we will, we know a lot of Chinese history, so I will go fairly quickly and deeply. This is an opportunity for us to look back on the theories we've developed over the course of this year, and really think about how they apply to the Chinese context. It's a chance for us to see if our models work. If they do work, then they would be true in the western context and also in the Chinese context. It's also a chance for us to deeply interrogate our theories and see where flaws might arise. Okay, so I'll be going through some Chinese history, but I will do so by applying the theories we've learned so far, mainly the oceanic currents of history. All right, so let's get started. Today. We're going to look at a question that is fundamental to China, which is we know that for the longest time, China really was the civilised civilization poor excellence in the world. It gave us all the great inventions that would make modernity possible, including the compass, paper, printmaking, gunpowder, okay, but after Song Dynasty, which is about the year 1200 China stopped being creative. And so why did this happen? And that is the question that will frame our discussion this morning. All right, let's go over some quick Chinese history. So Chinese civilization, as you know, developed along the Yellow River. The Yellow River is perfect for agriculture, and as a result, population expanded very quickly. When that happens, conflict and war will ensue, and that's and that's what will give rise to settlements and fortified cities that will drive the development of the state and civilization and technology. Okay? Um, the hallmark of China civilization is what we call the Warring States period, Chun chill. And at this time, the foundations of Chinese civilization will come into being. At this time you will have something called the 100 schools of thought. Confucianism will develop, as will Taoism and legalism, okay, and these ideas will form the foundation of Chinese civilization. And as you can see, in this period, all these 100 Schools of Thought develop because of a process we call open cooperative competition, which, as we have discussed, is the main driver of innovation in human civilization. Openness means that there is no centralised authority. Cooperation means that even though there's no centralised authority, the different states are trading, communicating with each other, and they are intermarrying into each other, and competition means that there is a lot of conflict between them. There are warring against each other for dominance in their region, okay? And in this process, this will give rise to the ideas, the technology, the values, the culture that will underpin China civilization for the next 2000 years. Confucius is obviously who is best remembered from this era, but you also have Lao Tzu, who is the founder of Daoism, as well as Zhang Zi and Mozu. Soon, Zi will, at this time, write his book, The Art of War. So in a process that is open cooperative competition, eventually one state will emerge to conquer the rest. And as we discuss why the state emerges is because of three things, energy. They're much more energetic. They're much more ambitious. Second is openness. They're much more willing to adopt innovation in the ruthless pursuit of military conquest. And they are opportunistic, meaning that. They will do whatever it takes to win. Okay, so in this period, the state that will eventually conquer all China and create the first empire is the Qing. And again, if you think about it, in the year 500 BCE, we could not possibly predict that the Qing would conquer and unite of China. Because of all these states, the Qing was the porous it was situated in the mountains, whereas the other states are situated in these fertile valleys. Its culture was not as developed as the rest, and its population was smaller. So we couldn't predict that the Qing would eventually unite all China. But at the same time, near 500 we cannot have predicted that Rome would unite the Mediterranean, and we cannot have predicted that Macedonia would have united the Greek world. All right, so let's discuss very quickly why the Qing was able to succeed. Okay, even though this is the Warring States period, and there's a lot of warfare going on, what we need to remember is that this warfare is heavily regulated war in this period. It's almost like an aerostatic, aristocratic game. Okay? So there are stories where this general was leading laying siege to a city, and the people inside were starving to death, which is what you do in a seas, right? You starve the population to death. But the general felt tremendous regret and guilt for putting the population under such misery, so he retreated and withdrew to give time for the population to recover. And that was considered what was gentlemanly, okay? That was what was considered chivalrous, civilised back then. Another story is that an army was crossing the river, which is a great time to attack them, but the opposing army let them cross the river because that is what is civilised, okay, what is gentlemanly? So this period was heavily regulated by a gentleman's code of conduct, okay? And then you ask yourself, why is that the case? And the answer is that, remember, this is a open cooperative competition environment in which, even though these states are at war. There's still a lot of intermarriage between them, there's still a lot of trade, a lot of communication. So these states are not trying to use warfare to overturn the social order because they benefit from the status quo. They're using warfare as a means to maintain the social order, and that's why warfare is extremely heavily regulated, okay, and so let's think about the Peloponnesian war between Athens and Sparta.

Prof. Jiang  8:12  
When we looked at the war, we know that the Peloponnese war was extremely bloody. It was extremely deadly. The same time, it was extremely regulated, and a lot of their strategies didn't really make any sense. It was really about defeating the enemy. So for example, we know that in Sparta there are people called the helots who are basically slaves to the Spartan people. The helots outnumber the Spartans 10 to one. So all Athens had to do was save the helots. If you fight for us, if you revolt against your masters, we will grant you freedom. That's all Athens had to do. But Athens never did that because, because by doing doing that, you would disrupt the social order from which Athens benefited, and you unleash a revolution that could possibly engulfed the entire Greek world also. Even though Sparta and Athens were enemies, they were united by intermarriage among their elites. They had a similar culture, and they historically were allies, especially against the Persians. Okay, so warfare at this time was about maintaining the status quo rather than overturning the status quo. And this presents an opportunity for the Qing Dynasty, which is in the margins of the status quo. All right, so the Qing Dynasty started to invent warfare in a way that opportunistically took advantage of the status quo situation, and they commit themselves to total warfare, meaning their entire society was engineered in a way to allow them to win against their enemies. Okay, so certain characteristics about. The Qing Dynasty at this time, first is the idea of legalism, right? Draconian laws that force a population to behave in a certain way, something that is very fundamental. The idea of legalism is collective responsibility. What that means is that if you commit a crime, you'll be punished, but so will your entire family. Okay? The idea of collective responsibility is pioneered at this time in order to maintain a very strict society that can be purpose for war. Okay, so that's the first thing, legalism. Second thing is the idea of centralization, meaning that you have a bureaucracy. You have centralization, okay? And this allows you to actually expand very quickly. It allows you to expand and govern new territories that you conquer. And the third of course, is total war, meaning like you devote all your resources to warfare in order to conquer your enemies. The Qing Dynasty was also known for its openness. So if you were a man of talent and you could contribute to the military and the bureaucracy, they would welcome you. Okay, so think of the Qing as a revolutionary system that sought to overturn the status quo. And the other states, like Wei, Zhao, Han and Chu, especially Chu, they were trying to maintain a status quo, and therefore they were not that well equipped to deal with a challenge from the Qing. Now we know that the Qing would unite of China and but because their system was so draconian, eventually the other states would rebel against them, and this would eventually lead to the Han Dynasty, okay? Now the Han Dynasty is actually well, even though the Han Dynasty disparages The Qing, right? So our very conception of the Qing comes from Han historians who tell us that the Qing buried scholars and they burned books. And that's extreme, and that, in our eyes, is barbaric, right? We don't know that's true. We know that the Qing practice heavy censorship, so those 100 schools of thought, a lot of these books were censored and destroyed during this period, but we don't know for a fact that they buried scholars. Okay, but this is what so the Han Dynasty is trying to disparage, trying to refute the Qing Dynasty. That said the Han Dynasty continues the system first introduced by the Qing. Okay, the Han is really, at this point, the height of Chinese civilization, there's a confidence, there's an arrogance to the Han, and one of the top priorities for the Han is now that they've United China, they have to deal with the northern steppes people. Okay, remember that throughout history, the steppes people have proven to be the most daunting challenge for civilizations. They are extremely they're ferocious warriors, and the steppe people will eventually give rise to the Mongols. At this point, the main adversary of the Han are called the Xiong nu people, and the Han Dynasty is committed to a policy of eradication against the Xiongnu, okay, and this policy of eradication will force the Xun nu to migrate westwards, and eventually they will, these people will start to even threaten Rome itself, Attila Han. The Han people are descendants of the Xiongnu, okay, but over time, because of this conflict between the Han and the northern steppe people, this will create tremendous strain on the Han, and eventually, the policy will evolve to one of cooperation and dependency. And so what will happen is there'll be a lot of trade, there'll be a lot of intermarriage and and the steppe people will be hired as mercenaries for internal conflicts within China. Okay, so open cooperative competition now switches Mahan, which has become a centralised power to the step people. So within these people, and there's quite a quite a lot of different tribes, there will be now tremendous competition. And one group, one tribe, that will eventually triumph, is called the shun Bay. Okay? And the shun Bay will give rise to. Which dynasty Do you guys know?

Prof. Jiang  15:07  
Okay, which? But shenbee will give rise to which major Chinese dynasty you guys should know this. What comes after that, the Han, the Tang Dynasty. Okay, so this is one, one thing that is misunderstood. The Han Dynasty is really the last Chinese dynasty. It is the last ethnically Chinese dynasty committed to the protection and propagation of Chinese culture, the Tang Dynasty, the founders, the Li family, they're actually the of the Shan bei tribe, okay, and as a result, they will switch from a state. They will switch China into a universal, multicultural empire, okay, the Tang Dynasty is famous for being extremely open, tolerant and an inclusive Okay, all right, so this is the Tang Dynasty, which is considered the height of power, a height of Chinese power in the world. The Tang Dynasty will try to expand westwards into Central Asia, and it will start the Silk Road and trade networks all around the world. Buddhism at this point will come into China, and it will become, at certain points, a state religion, okay, but there are many problems with the Tang Dynasty. So there's a heavy reliance on generals to fight wars, and this will eventually lead to the an Lushan rebellion, okay, which lasts for almost 10 years. An Lushan is the top General of the Tang Dynasty, and because he's given too much power, he has too much independence, He's much too trusted by the emperor, he eventually rebels and seeks the throne for himself, okay, this rebellion will kill anywhere between a third to half of the tang population, okay, 60 million to 30 million people, and this is this is devastating and traumatic For the Tang Dynasty, okay, but somehow it recovers, but, but then, but then, you will have another rebellion called a Huang Chao rebellion, which will end the Tang Dynasty. I'll talk about the Huang Chao later on, the Tang Dynasty will give rise to the Song Dynasty, and the Song Dynasty will adopt a policy of diplomacy, tribute, assimilation with the northern tribes. Okay? They're trying to avoid the trap of the Tang, where you give too much power to General and the general will rebel. Okay, so a lot of power in the song at the time the Song Dynasty, a lot of power will be invested in the Imperial bureaucracy. Okay, that's a song eventually, a song Empire will be carved up and conquered. Eventually, the ultimate winners of this war will be the Mongols, who, in the year 1279, conquers the entirety of the song empire and unites China, okay, but the yuan, the Mongols are considered a foreign dynasty. So I mentioned that the Tang Dynasty is actually Non, non Chinese, but the Mongols understood themselves to be non Chinese, and as a result, they discriminated against Chinese people, which ultimately led to rebellion that will establish the Ming Empire, and eventually the Ming Empire will give way to the Qing Empire. The Manchus are just another iteration of the Mongol people. They will rule China until 1911 when the Empire is overthrown, a republic is established, and this gives way to, of course, the People's Republic of China. So the big question, again, what we're looking at is, why is it that the Song Dynasty is the last creative dynasty, all right? And if we use the idea of open cooperative competition, then we know the answer, all right. And the answer is this, previous dynasties were not able to exert national control. They were always competing against other states within China proper. Okay, so you look at the Han Dynasty, well, the Han Dynasty would give way to dozens of other states that would compete against each other. Okay, so in theory, the Qing and the Han united. China, but not for long, all right, and that same is true for the tongue as as well. China, for the longest time, was just too large, too diverse, to be unified centrally, and as a result, the idea of open cooperative competition would still give rise to innovation, but starting at the time of the song, we see a radical change. Look at that. Look at the song, okay, the song is pretty united, and the yuan is extremely united. So the Yuan Dynasty is able to unite all of China. And then after the Yuan Dynasty, the Ming is also pretty united, and the Qing is extremely united. Okay, so in other words, the answer is this, after the song and starting the yuan, China became nationally unified, and it was able, the centre was able to exert control of the provinces, provinces, in a way that was not true before in Chinese history. Okay, so the idea of open competitive competition died with a Song Dynasty, and that's why, after the song trying to stop being creative. Okay, so that's the answer. But then this gives rise to a another question, which is, how was China able to create national unity? All right, so to answer this question, I want to refer to the work of Professor Wang Yu Hua. He is a professor of Chinese History at Harvard, and he wrote a new book called The Rise and Fall of Imperial China, and it's wonderful book if you're interested in Chinese history, I strongly recommend that that you look at this book. All right, so he begins the book by asking a central question. And the central question is this, we know that the Tang Dynasty was really the height of Chinese power. It had about a quarter of the world's GDP, and it was and it influenced the cultures of Korea, Japan, and it's extremely diverse, inclusive, multicultural empire that introduced Buddhism to China, okay, but the problem with the Tang is their emperors didn't really live that long. Five emperors, at least five emperors during the Tanglin state were deposed by the elite, the aristocracy got together and were through the Emperor, usually by killing him. Okay, so this is a tonne of NYS, but we look at the Qing. Qing only had 5% of the world's GDP, and it was wracked by internal rebellions like the Taiping Rebellion, and it was far behind in terms of of science technology to Europe. But the emperors, like tianlong, they could rule for 60 years peacefully. Okay? They transitioned into a throne peacefully, and they died peacefully. So the Qing, even though it marked a a low point in Chinese prosperity, the Emperors lived for a long time, which meant that the bureaucracy, the centre, was really stable. This is a paradox, okay. Why is it that when China is wealthy, the emperor is weak, but when the emperor is strong, China is poor. That's a paradox that Professor Wong Yu Hua is trying to answer in his book. Okay, so he, he, so, I mean, he is. He used a lot of social science analysis and research for his book. So first of all, what he does is he analyses the probability as an emperor that you are deposed by the elite, okay? And it turns out like the tongue was really the height, but then when you get to the song, the probability decreases significantly, okay. But at the same time, what we need to understand is, even though the Emperor lived longer, the state's ability to collect taxes to control the economy decreased over time, okay, so you can see that starting the year zero, all the way down, there's a downward slope. Now this is not straight down, okay. There are peaks, right? So you go down, then you go up, you go down. The up is when a new dynasty starts. And so at this time, the new dynasty is right. By very strong leader, like, for example,

Prof. Jiang  25:05  
Zhu Yan Zhang of the Ming Dynasty, the founder of the Ming Dynasty. Okay, these are extremely capable leaders, and they are supported by really talented bureaucrats. And at this point, they're able to collect a lot of taxes, which strengthens the centre. But over time, the trend is fairly clear. Starting at the time of the song, you see a steep decline in the state's ability to collect taxes. Okay? The only exceptions are around this year, 1600 when the Ming transitions to the Qing. And so what Professor Wang Yuhua has discovered is the reason why you have this transition is the Emperor starting around the time of the song. He's actually figured out a way to divide and conquer the elite. Okay, so the elite, when they are united, they're able to promote strong, centralised policies that promote that promote national growth, but the centralised elite can always threaten the Emperor, who is dependent on the elite for for for their support in the military and in government. Okay, starting around the song, the centralised Elite is now broken down into localised elite. So the trick that China has discovered in maintaining a strong centre is by localising the elites. Okay, so the idea is, you localise the elite. When you localise elites, you can implement a policy we call divide and conquer. Okay, so you get the elites in this province to fight amongst themselves. If they're too busy fighting amongst themselves, they're not going to ever rebel against you, and they're not going to build alliances with other provinces to ever challenge you, okay? And their priorities and focus is in the provinces, and they really don't care what you guys do in the capital. All right, so that's the thesis, all right. And what Professor Wang Yu Hua says is the main mechanism that the Emperor used in order to achieve this radical cultural shift is the could you, okay, the could you is a civil service examination that promoted bureaucrats into positions of power, okay, the Kuju the civil service examination. And so the history of the Kuju is that it was introduced briefly in a Sui, and then the Tang Dynasty started to use it, okay, but it was really the Song Dynasty that really systemized and promoted it, okay? Basically the Song Dynasty institutionalised, institutionalised the Kuju, okay? And before the koju, it was really an aerosotic aristocratic system where you had to be of noble birth in order to become a high official in government, which is true for most cultures. Okay, so that's what he argues. All right, so he looks at times of major rebellions, and what he shows is that whenever there's massive climate change, you have violence erupt. Okay? Because when you have a centralised system, what often happens is that the nobility engage in rent seeking behaviour. Basically, they they exploit the peasants, and that's fine if the weather is good, when the weather is bad and peasants don't have enough to eat, they often rebel, okay? And in a tongue this would culminate in something called the Huang Chao rebellion, which would last for 10 years, when a salt merchant in Huang Chao, sorry, a certain salt merchant named Huang Chao, he would lead an uprising that will overwhelm and destroy the Tang Dynasty. The thing that's important for us to remember is that he would go all the way to Chang'an, and Chang'an is where all the elite live. Okay, there are about 200 aristocratic, aristocratic families in the Tang Dynasty, and they're all killed in this rebellion. When you remove the aristocracy. This gives the Song Dynasty room to implement a new policy and ensure that a nobility cannot arise again. Okay, so that is the significance of the Huang Chao rebellion. It eliminated the idea of aristocracy in China. So. Okay. So Professor Wang Yu Hua, he looks what he does is he shows you how networks work in China. So during the Tang Dynasty, as you can see, there are centres which then move to the provinces. Okay, so these families are all interconnected together, because there's only 200 aristocratic families. If you are a wealthy family in a province, what you want to do is intermarry into one of these aristocratic aristocratic families, okay? Because that's the best way to ensure your advantage and privilege in life. Okay? So that's this is during the Tang Dynasty, when families are united nationally. But when you get to the song ISD, what you will see is that the centre has been localised, meaning it's been spread out. And what you will also see is that these networks are localised. They're not connected together now nationally, all right? And this, again, allows now the Emperor to divide and conquer. All right, so let's, let's just do a comparison of the tongue and the song. As you can see, what's really important is, look at this. Guys, the networks become more and more localised over time. It is the deliberate policy of the Imperial bureaucracy to localise elite networks so that they can never unite and challenge the centre. Okay, so these networks are becoming much more fractured and localised over time. All right, okay, so the main benefit of the system is, of course, national unity. So again, during the Han, you have all these different provinces that form their own dynasties and which challenge a centre. Okay, so China was in a constant process of war. The Tang Dynasty was a bit better, but when you get to the song the yuan, the Ming and the Qing, it's all pretty unified, nationally. Okay? By localising elites, you ensure the centre can be challenged, and as a result, you give a semblance of national unity. But the problem with this, as we know, is it comes at the cost of innovation, which will make China insular, poor and divided in the long term. And it's not, it's not really a sustainable system, okay, but that's a system that China has chosen to adopt for the past 1000 years, right, a divide and conquer policy against the local elites. All right, so let's look at another example of how China became insular, poor and divided over time. So this is a map of the top 30 cities by population throughout Chinese history. As you can see, during the Western Han during the Hong dynasty, most of these cities are centred around the Huang Ho, the Yellow River. Okay, that makes sense, because that's where China's Chinese civilization began. But starting with a tongue Tonga tongue, they're starting to spread out more, and by the time of the song, they're actually congregating to the coast, right? So why is this happening? It's happening because of maritime trade initiated by the Abbasid Caliphate, okay? Remember last class we learned about the Islamic Golden Age and how the Abbasid Caliphate became so wealthy that it established trade networks all around the world, and these trade networks are so powerful that they could influence the national economic development of China, okay? And we can expect that, because of maritime trade, over time, all the major cities of China would all shift to the coast, and that's why, when Zhu Yuan Zhang came into power, he initiated a policy of closed borders. He shut down maritime trade because he was afraid that if this continued, then all the set, all the power, would be located in the coastal areas, and therefore the north, the West, the South, will become much poorer, and therefore they are much more incentivized to rebel also the coastal areas would have so much power that they could ultimately depose him, okay? And that's why Julian Juan Zhang would impose a policy of maritime trade back. And this would make China much more insular and weak and. Poor. Okay,

Prof. Jiang  35:04  
so again, remember back to the Islamic warning age when the Islamic world united all the entire world and tried to pull China into its system. But because of that, it was costing wealth inequality in China, and that's why the Ming Dynasty will shut down the straight network, not completely, but mostly, okay. And that's why you see have this massive Chinese immigration to Southeast Asia, because they want to maintain these trade networks. And there's a trade ban enforced in the Qing sorry, in the Ming Dynasty, okay, and the Qing Dynasty will continue this policy as well. For China, the priority is is eternal internal stability, rather than wealth and prosperity, okay? All right, so that's a quick introduction. All right, any questions about this so far? Are guys clear?

Prof. Jiang  36:11  
Any questions? No.

Prof. Jiang  36:26  
Guys are clear, right? Okay, all right. So that is Professor Wang Yu hua's argument. And as you can see, it's, it's, he backs up with a lot of data. Okay, I'm just presenting to you his argument. Okay, so now I want to talk more about the idea of the Imperial bureaucracy, because this will inform and help us better understand world history as we move along. Okay, so to better understand the rise of the bureaucracy, let's, let's first reexamine the history of Rome. Okay, so here 500 BCE, okay, Rome became a republic. And Rome, the Republic will become the model for the British Empire, as well as the American republic. Okay, so it's very important that you fully understand the Rome idea of Republic. Okay, so a republic is again a society governed by laws, tradition and history, okay? And these three things are manifested in the nobility, okay? What the Romans call patricians, patricians and the patricians will exercise power for something called the Senate. Okay? And it's this very idea that Rome is ultimately a culture, a republic governed by law, tradition and history is what will allow it to expand very quickly until it dominate the entire Mediterranean. These patricians are the ones who will establish these international networks that will make the Roman Republic coherent, okay? And they will do so through the idea of a Patreon client relationship, okay? So the idea is you have a patriarch, and then the patriarch has clients, and this will expand across the entire Mediterranean. So in other words, the emperor is just one among equals. The Emperor has his has his empire, but these patriarchs have their own empires within the empire, okay? And this gives Rome, even though it's very spread out, a coherence and a unity that most empires don't have. And again, this is important for us, because the British will copy this model when they build their empire, okay, as well as the Americans.

Prof. Jiang  39:51  
The problem with this system, though, is that if the Patriots don't like the Emperor. Well, the patriarchs can get together and depose the Emperor, which has happened a lot of times throughout the history of the Roman Republic. So think of Julius Caesar, right? Julius Caesar wanted more power for himself, and so the patriarchs got together and killed him. But Julius Caesar was just one of many. There was also Caligula Nero and these and a lot more emperors, okay, so, because of this, new emperors, but especially people like Diocletian. Diocletian was a military general who won the Roman Civil War, and so, so became emperor. They had to fix this problem, okay? Because obviously you're emperor, your biggest problem is, how do you stay alive? And in the Roman Republic, the chances of you staying alive aren't very high, okay, so starting with Diocletian, they start to develop an imperial bureaucracy to counter the power of the nobility. Okay, the problem, though, is that the nobility solves three problems for you that the proxy cannot solve. The first is a problem of the will to fight. The second is unity. The third is culture. Okay, so the will to fight means that in a war, the nobility are those who are the most to lose, and therefore they're the most willing to die. So think about the year 216 when Hannibal invaded the Italian peninsula and he had destroyed all the Roman armies. At this point, Rome should have surrendered, but nobility refused to surrender, because if they surrendered, then Hannibal would have instituted changes to their culture that would have destroyed the prestige, power and wealth of nobility. That's why the nobility refused to surrender. They fought to the very bitter end, and eventually they were able to triumph over Carthage. Okay? So the will to fight, the nobility gives a society the will to fight. Second, of course, is unity. Okay, national unity. The third is culture. So the people who wrote the history of Rome were actually the nobility. They were the senators, the aristocrats. Okay? So when you get rid of nobility, you lose these three things. You lose the idea of a national unity, a national identity. You lose culture, you lose the will to fight, okay? And that's why, for the longest time, the system stayed in place, because to reject the nobility, to kill all the nobility, would be to destroy the tradition, culture and history of Rome, all right, but Diocletian would try to solve this problem by implementing Imperial bureaucracy, but the Imperial property could not challenge the authority, power and legitimacy of nobility. Okay, that's why Constantine would in 330 move the capital to Byzantium and create the Byzantine Empire. Okay? And as we discussed previously, the Byzantine Empire folk had an imperial bureaucracy, and it was the dominant power. And so the Byzantine Empire is not a continuation of the Roman Empire. Is rejection of the Roman Republic. Okay, so does that make sense the history of Rome? Okay, this is important for us, because the same thing will happen in China, okay, the same thing will happen in China after the Tang Dynasty, the Song Dynasty will look at the mistakes of the Tang Dynasty, and they will start to implement a implement the cuju system and create an imperial bureaucracy that will rule China for the Next 1000 years. Okay, all right, so the could you, there is a great misconception in China that the could you is a meritocracy, but it is not a meritocracy. It was never designed to be a meritocracy. I know that in school, you are taught that they have the Kuju in order for the Emperor to select the best and brightest in China, and because of the best and brightest, they will rule China virtuously. That's what you've been taught in school. That is not correct. That's not what the Kuju is designed for. The Kuju is designed for the Emperor to. Localise the elites and to divide and conquer them. Okay, so let me explain why it's not a meritocracy. First thing, first thing about other culture that's important for us is that there's a quota system in place. Okay, so it was just meritocracy, then the very best and brightest would win out, right? But think about the Gaokao, okay, if it was just a meritocracy, then who would get into like, top university in China? I assure you that 90% of all the top students would come from two cities, right, Beijing and Shanghai, right? But that's not how the system works. There is a quota system in place. There's geographic distribution. Only a certain number of students from Beijing and Shanghai can get into Peking and Tsinghua. The rest come from the provinces. Okay? The Kuju is the same system. So let's look at it very quickly. You have the centre. Everyone's trying to get into the centre. Let's say you have province A, B, C and D and all the same. You have 10 wolfy families. Okay, you have 10,000 poor families. Okay, peasants. How the system works is, A will send 2d, will send 2b. Will send 2c, will send two, okay? And when you do it this way, this creates competition among the local elites, right to win these positions, and therefore they will fight amongst themselves. Does that make sense? If you don't do it this way, if it's just the best and brightest, then what will happen is like a, b, c, d, and will compete, compete amongst themselves, and eventually, one of the provinces, like maybe B, will develop the innovation in order for their children to always finish first or place a pop in the colludial. Okay, does that make sense? Guys? All right, so it's not meritocracy. It's a quarter system. That's the first thing. Second thing you need, you need to understand, is that it is unfair. Why is it unfair? Well, because, in order to do well on the Kuju, remember, the Kuju is testing your knowledge of something called Wen Yan, okay, or classical Chinese, classical literary Chinese okay, this is a very hard skill to learn. It will take you decades. You will need product tutoring. Your family needs. Have a lot of money. You need to spend decades on this project, which means that you have a lot of leisure time. You don't have to work, okay? So in other In other words, only the elite families of China can compete in the system, and that's the point. Okay, the point is to concentrate the ambition and energy of the elite families into the cuju otherwise they might come up with ideas like rebellion, okay? They also might come up with new inventions and amazing literature, but they'll also probably think of ways to rebel, okay, that's why you want to concentrate their energies on the koju right? Does that make sense? The third thing that's really important for us to remember is that this system is discretionary. What does that mean? It means that just because you finished first on the Kuju does not mean you become a government official. Okay, did you guys understand success on the Kuju does not translate into success in politics. It is discretionary, meaning the Emperor gets to decide who becomes an official and who gets promoted. Only the Emperor, all right? And often, what will happen is the Emperor will start to promote, maybe someone from the poor families. Okay, so not poor, but lower nobility. And the reason why you want to do that is to create a precarious situation in the provinces where no family feels secure enough to feel as though they're the nobility. Okay, you want to create conflict and precariousness in the provinces. Divide and conquer, and therefore you can exert greater control over the provinces. But by doing that, you limit economic growth, you limit cultural innovation, okay, does that make sense? Guys? All right. So What? What? What this means is the bureaucracy is able to control China because of its monopoly, it has monopoly over three aspects, all right, the first is status.

Prof. Jiang  49:52  
All right. So if you want to be admired, if you want to be respected in China, you do well in a code you and you become an official. Dream of every family in China, right? It's still true today, right? Where the dream of every Chinese family is for you guys to get into an Ayurvedic school or to the Gaokao and go to Peking or Tsinghua, okay, the idea of status is still associated with a could you? Even though we know that success on the could you and success on the alcohol does not necessarily, necessarily translate into success in school or in life, okay, that's the first thing. The second is the monopoly over literacy. Okay, the monopoly over literacy. What I mean by that is this, in most cultures, your goal is to make literacy more widespread, which, when you do that, you allow for faster economic development. Okay, so throughout history, all cultures have tried to figure out how to make literacy more widespread, more prevalent. So let's look at example of Egypt. Okay, Egypt. Egypt has been around for as long as China, and over centuries, they would make their language a lot easier to understand. So in the beginning, they had hieroglyphics, okay, so maybe the sun, this will represent sun. This is Moon. Okay, so that's the first stage. They have pictograms to represent ideas. Okay, then what they would do is make these symbols shorter, okay, so that it's easy to remember. And then what they would do is they would make these symbols phonological meaning. They don't they don't represent ideas. They represent sounds. Okay? So this now becomes the English word monsoon, right? Does that make sense? And then what they would do is they would take the sound, sorry, take, take, take the word and make it into just one consonant. Okay, so this week, so this would become s, this would become m, and therefore you now have the word English word some Okay, and that's how, and that's where we have the alphabet. Because of this evolution of language in Egypt, it was Egyptians who developed this system, and then the Greeks stole it through the Phoenicians, okay, all right, so most cultures follow this pattern, because that because now it's easier for people to become literate, which just drives economic growth, okay, China is the only culture in human history that has made literacy more difficult over time. All right? China took the bittograms and made them even more complex and added these very complex grammatical rules to the language and create something called literary Chinese, okay? Literary Chinese, but that's a nice that's a nice that's a euphemism, that's a nice way of saying it really what it what it is is bureaucrat hat, bureaucratize, okay? Bureaucratize is a language that only bureaucrats can understand. So think of contracts, right? When you look at legal contracts, you can't read it. Why? Because the language, the grammar, is designed so that only as a specialised lawyer could you understand the contract, right? And this is what we call rent seeking behaviour. You create something that only you can use, and people have to pay rent in order to access your knowledge. All right? So literacy the problem. Literacy will keep China back from developing. And the third is culture. Okay, culture. And when I mean culture, I really mean Confucianism. So confusionism is really a bureaucratic philosophy system designed to maintain the status quo, to control how people think about the world. All right, so remember, in the Confucian religion, what really not what matters first and foremost is balance, harmony. There's also a concept called ancestor worship. So you can't leave your village, because if you leave your village, you can no longer worship your ancestors, right? You can't clean their graves, and so people are just stuck in place, not limit trade and innovation in China, okay? So the could you sorry, the bureaucracy, the Imperial bureaucracy, was able to maintain its monopoly over status, literacy and culture through three mechanisms. The could you lit Wen Yan, literary Chinese and Confucianism, and that stopped the development of

Prof. Jiang  55:27  
that stop the cultural and economic development of China. Okay, so let's better understand this idea. Okay, in a society, there are different ways to seek to seek success and status, all right, so you have the bureaucracy, of course, and that's the that's the way people do it in China. But you also have the military. You also have nobility, right? Join a nobility. You also have church, religion, right? By becoming a priest, by becoming a spiritual leader. You also have merchants right commerce. You can also do it through artistic endeavours. So these are the main ways people achieve status in society. And in most societies, you have these different systems in place. What is unique about China is the dominance of the bureaucracy. Okay? So the nobility was wiped out, and for the Kuju, the kudu ensures that no nobility can arise again in China. Okay? Church, religion was outlawed for most of Chinese history, okay? Um, the merchant and the artistic people are low status in China. So go back to the confusion system, the scholar, fishers at the top, then you then you have the farmers, then you have the merchants and you have the artists, right? So that so the confusion, religion puts the merchants and the artists at the very bottom. And this is intentional, because the artists okay, they can promote new ideas, but the merchants are even more problematic, because they trade Okay, and they can accumulate wealth, and that wealth can challenge the authority of the Empire. All right, so the merchants are a problem. The military, as we know, was heavily suppressed throughout Chinese history, okay, so the Song Dynasty, there was these massive conflicts between the military and the bureaucracy. The military want to go fight and defend song territory. The bureaucracy wanted to just bribe everyone, okay, all right, okay, so, and because you have too much power over the bureaucracy, this will stunt development in China, all right, let's look at one more example. Okay, we know like by the time it was song, China had four major inventions. Okay? These four major inventions, of course, are paper, printmaking, compass and gunpowder, all right? And these four inventions guys will revolution, revolutionise the world, all right. So if you look at paper, it will give rise to banknotes, okay, so the stone had banknotes, and this will give rise to capitalism in the West. Printmaking is important because, remember, in the 15th century, Gutenberg created something called the printing press in Europe, and because of the printing press, you're now able to manufacture books at scale. And when you do that, what happens is that people become more literate. Okay, so the very idea of the printing press made available, all this, all these books, all this knowledge that wasn't available before, and now people could just learn how to read and write. Okay, so this will give rise to literacy. And when you give rise to literacy, you will give rise to things like the Renaissance, the Protestant Reformation, Azmain revolution, enlightenment, the French Revolution. Okay, so this marked a revolution in European affairs. The Compass right will allow for the age of exploration, so these Europeans are able to discover new lands and conquer and colonise them, right? So North America, South America, will eventually all become colonised by the Europeans using the compass. Gun power is important because it is the it is a revolution in warfare. From gun power, you will have things like the cannon and also a. Eventually the musket. The musket is just an individual gun. And this marks a revolution, not only in warfare, but also in human affairs, because when, when you have the musket. Now, individual soldiers do matter. Okay, before it was a knight who was the main weapon in a warfare, but we have a musket. You can now equal the playing field. Okay, it's more important to have more soldiers than to have knights, and this will allow for things like the American Revolution, right? When you have these farmers with muskets, they were able to overthrow the British Empire, it will give rise to the French Revolution. When you have citizens who are not professional soldiers, they will take these muskets and defend the country against a European invasion. All right, so the all these are major revolutions that will give rise to modernity. Okay, and again, China, by the Song Dynasty, 1200 CE, had all four inventions, but because of the culture in place, because of the bureaucratic culture in place, neither, not any of these inventions had an impact in on China Society, so they did nothing whatsoever with all four inventions. All right. So the key lesson here, guys, and this is really important, technology does not matter. You can steal the technology. What matters is the culture. All right. Another example, of course, is the Yuan Dynasty. When the Yuan Dynasty, during the Yuan Dynasty, China, was importing a lot of foreign experts, a lot of foreign bureaucrats, Christians, Muslims, Jews, they were importing a lot of foreign technology. And then when the Ming power. When the Ming Empire came into place, they got rid of all this stuff, okay. They got rid of the foreigners. They got rid of technology and trying to became much more insular and backward, okay.

Prof. Jiang  1:02:17  
Okay, so that explains why the song after song Dynasty China did not innovate anymore, because the Empire did not want to innovate. Innovation is a threat to the status quo, and what's important is to maintain the status quo, even though, by doing so, ultimately, you make China poor, weak and divided. All right, good. Any questions, does it make sense to you guys? Does this conform to your understanding of Chinese history? I question

Prof. Jiang  1:03:04  
about confusionism, yeah, okay, so the question is, is confuciusism a religion or a culture? So no one thinks confusion is a religion at most people will say that confusion is a civic religion, okay, or philosophy, all right. So I would say that Confucianism, ultimately what it is is bureaucratism. I

Prof. Jiang  1:03:40  
can't even spell bureaucrat anymore, okay? Bureaucratism, okay? What I mean by that is that it is something that's designed to make everyone believe that a bureaucratic society is the best society. It is one that is the most sophisticated, and it's designed in order to maintain a status quo where bureaucrats are at the top. Okay, that's what Confucianism really is. So the example is that, if you read Chinese history, the most virtuous people are always bureaucrats, scholar, officials, right? And this propaganda is so effective that eventually Europeans will stop what will start to mimic this propaganda. So Voltaire, the French enlightenment thinker, says that Chinese have the best system because they allow only educated to rule, not soldiers, not priests, but scholar officials, mandarins. Okay, so this is so the idea of Confucianism is that it's bureaucratism. It's designed to legitimise and give authority to the bureaucratic elite, right? So thank you. Does that make sense to you? Okay? Any more questions?

Prof. Jiang  1:05:07  
Okay, so I'm gonna end the class with story. Okay, and the story has to do with the first Emperor of the Ming Dynasty, Zhu Yan Zhang. So Zhu Yan Zhang, he is now emperor, and he reinstitutes The koju. Okay? The the Mongols got rid of the koju because they had a nobility, but Juan Jiang, He restores the Kujo. And everyone's excited. Okay, so everyone comes and takes the examination. When the results come out, what happens is that the the test takers from the south do a lot better from the north. So these northern test takers feel there must be corruption in place. So they file petition to the emperor. The emperor looks at the petition and he agrees, there must be corruption. How is that? No northerner was able to pass the could you? So he calls in his chief minister, and he says, this is a huge scandal. I want you to resolve this issue. Okay, figure out who responsible for this corruption and kill them all right, so let's go. So the chief minister, he really wants to impress the Emperor, so he spends months painstakingly, rigorously examining the issue, investigating the issue. He has commissioned. He has hundreds of staff. He personally looks at every single could you. And then he writes his report. He presented to the Emperor, okay? And he says to the Emperor, Your Majesty, I personally have done this investigation, and we have written like 1000s of pages of report directly to you, and I can guarantee you the could you when implemented was a fair, open and transparent process. The fact of the matter is that people in the south, they're more civilised, they're more culture, they're more educated, and therefore they just did better on the better than the northerners. And I'm really sorry this happened, but I guarantee you, the Kuju is a fair, open and transparent process. You have nothing to worry about. It's all been taken care of. So what do you think the Emperor did? What did the Emperor did? Have you guys heard of the story? He killed them all. He killed the high official. He killed the high officials, commissioners. He killed the test makers. He killed those who got the very best scores on the Kuju, okay, the reason why is the Emperor does not want a fair, open and transparent system. He wants a system in which the localities will not rebel against the centre, okay? And that's what the Cojo is, all right, so that is it. We will do Genghis Khan. Next class, you.

