Prof. Jiang  0:00  
Okay, good morning. So today we will do Germany, and thus conclude our discussion of the four quadratizations that are fighting for global dominance. We previously did Britain, America Tuesday. We did Russia today. We do Germany. So to recap, Russian civilization is very distinct from American, sorry, Anglo American civilization and German civilization is also distinct as well. We're going to focus on the idea of unity of will in Germany German civilization today. We don't know much about German civilization because they were defeated in World War Two, and because the Anglo Americans control the history of the world, we tend to think Anglo American civilization is superior to German and Russian civilization. But what I will show you today is that in many respects, the most advanced civilization that humans have ever created is actually the German civilization. Okay, so if you look at a map today in Europe, there's a really interesting fact that may surprise you. The green is Russia, okay, it's a larger treasure in the world. Over here are the Baltic nations, and over here is a place called kalanigrad. It's actually Russian. Okay. So the question then, is, how did this come to pass? How was it that you've got this colony of Russians far away from the motherland? And the answer is this, because historically, this was not Russian. Historically, this was a place called konansburg, which was part of a nation that no longer exists, called Prussia. And for a couple 100 years, Prussia was the strongest military, the most advanced civilization in the world, and now it's disappeared, and it's been replaced by Poland, okay, and parts of Belarus and West Prussia has now become part of Germany, okay, but Prussia is no longer it's extinct. And the reason why is that in World War Two, the allies who won the war, the Soviet Union, the British and Americans, decided to destroy Prussia. And the rationale was that Prussia is a militaristic society that is hell bent on world domination, and by eliminating Prussia, we can now bring peace to the world. The problem, though, is that konarsburg, which is now Canada grad, was really the centre of civilization for a few decades. This is konarsburg before in 1800s as you can see, it's a beautiful port city by the Baltic Sea, and it was really the apex of human civilization. And then, of course, World War Two happened. And then after war two, konsberg was destroyed, okay? It was turned into rubble. And today it's like this, kalanigrad, okay, a very Soviet, stale city with no character, with no culture, with no civilization, right? And that's the intent to turn to destroy konsberg, which is, which was, for the longest time, the heart and soul of German civilization. It is true that konarsburg and Prussia were extremely powerful. What's extremely powerful military nation. And as you can see, this is Wikipedia, by the way, okay, as you can see, there are many great generals and officers who are from connersburg. Okay, we're talking about the city. We're not talking about the nation pressure. We're talking about the city of conersburg. But you also see that there are many intellectuals, writers who come from carnesburg, okay, and the most famous of these intellectuals is Immanuel Kant, which who will discuss next class. He basically changed the course of Western history with his philosophy. So carnesburg was the birthplace of Emmanuel Kant. So how is it that the man who is most responsible for the enlightenment happens to be born in the military, sick nation? Okay, that's that's a question. But not only Immanuel Kant, but you have also many other great thinkers, including Hannah Arendt. Who is a Jewish philosopher and who is considered one of the greatest political philosophers of the 20th century. She's also from carnesburg scientists, just an amazing group of scientists as well as mathematicians. Okay, and then, of course, you have musicians and artists. So the contribution of konarsburg towards civilization cannot be overstated. And there are quite a there are quite a few Jews who lived in konarsburg. Conersburg, for the longest time, was considered one of the most tolerant cities in Germany for Jews. Let's now look at Nobel Prize winners in the sciences, physics, chemistry and medicine. As you can see, in 1925 the majority were actually from Germany. Okay, Germany had the best scientists in the world. 1933 same thing you got on 1950 same thing. In fact, by 1975 Germany is still dominant. The United States is catching up. It's only by about 2000 when the United States starts to take over, overtake Germany. So again, the question then is, how is it possible for a militaristic nation, hell bent on world domination? How are they able to produce so many great scientists, so many great philosophers? And this is a very famous quote from Voltaire that captures the prejudice of the West against Prussia, where some states have an army, the Prussian army has a state. Okay, this is pretty insulting to Prussian culture. We've looked at many civilizations that are militaristic, okay, including the Romans, Spartans, Aztecs, Macedonians and Qing Chinese, among others. They're extremely successful, military, militarily. But guess what? They were not creative. In fact, they were anti creative. So how is it possible for the Prussians to be both creative and militaristic? And the answer is, because the Western prejudice against Prussia is wrong. They were not a militaristic nation bent on world domination. They were first and foremost, a creative, humanistic society that was forced into military military confrontation with neighbours because of its geographic location. Okay, so let's go back to the history of the Holy Roman Empire, as we discussed in a previous class, the Holy Roman Empire was confederation of German city states, and there were, like 1000s and 1000s of them that were in competition with each other, okay, over time because of competition from the more powerful states, like France, Poland, Lithuania, Russia, Sweden, these city states were now forced to gel together. The most successful of these city states is Prussia, okay. And for the longest time, pressure was a vassal state of the Polish lutheranian Commonwealth, or the Swedes, okay? But by about the year 700 it started to come into its own for the leadership, for great military leadership, okay? And start to spread out. And as you can see, it's spreading out really quickly because of its military victories and because of its high culture. Its high culture. By the 19th century, Prussia has dedicated itself to uniting all of Germany, and it starts a series of wars that allow for the unification of all the German people. The first is something called the Dano Prussian war. Then they fight against the Austrian Hungary Empire, which is a successor to the Holy Roman Empire. And they defeat the Austrians really quickly. Then they move on to France, which is the dominant power of this time, and they defeat France, thus allowing for the complete unification of Germany under Prussian leadership. Okay, so how was Prussia able to be so successful? Well, as we discussed last class, there are certain characteristics about these city states that go on to unify a nation. The three major ones that Moscow and Prussia share is open, cooperative, competition. They're surrounded by enemies, and they're forced to be innovative, open and tolerant in order to succeed, they're forced to be unified, advantaged by disadvantage. Okay, so Prussia and Moscow had limited resources, which forces them to focus on human capital, on making sure the citizens, citizens were well educated and the citizens were

Prof. Jiang  9:58  
hard working and vassalage. Okay, so again, Moscow was under the vassalage of the monk of the Mongols, and Prussia, for longest time was under the vassalage of the Swedes, the poles, the Lithuanians, and as a result, they're always engaged in a process of reflection and resilience, okay, and that's really the secret to the success of Prussia, all right, at the same time, the thing to remember about the Prussians that differentiates them from the Muscovites is because Prussia is situated within Europe. It has a very different attitude towards humans than the Muscovites. Okay, the Muscovites, because of their Mongolian heritage, they tend to oppress their subjects, whereas the Prussians are much more democratic, they're much more progressive, they're much more open. Okay, so this is Frederick the Great, who is considered the great nation builder of Prussia for his military victories. What is often ignored is his social, economic, political reforms. He really is the first enlightenment despot. Okay, he's heavily influenced by Manuel caught. They fought very highly of each other, and he was, he was very intent on making pressure the first enlightened state of Europe. Okay, so let's look at the few things he did. He radically reformed the Prussian judicial system so that you had rule of law, so that everyone had recourse to justice, no matter even if you were poor, you could still sue. He abolished torture in the military, and this was revolutionary at this time, because it was always assumed that you kept your soldiers in check by scaring them, okay? You established, he established religious tolerance. Remember, at this time in Europe, there's a huge war going on between Catholics and the Protestants, and he was tolerant towards both the Catholics and the Protestants, and even to a certain extent, to the Jews as well, okay? And over time, konarsburg, which is the heart and centre of the Prussian nation, becomes really one. It has one of the largest Jewish settlements in Europe, okay, about 5000 at that point. He grants basic form of freedom of speech, and he and the most important thing is that in 1763, he establishes a public school system that becomes a source for prussia's future greatness. And to put this in context, okay, it's only over 100 years later when Britain and France does this, Japan and America will copy just basically steal the Prussian education system. Okay, in 1806, Prussia is defeated by Napoleon. We discussed this, and as a result, Prussia becomes a vassal state to Napoleon. And at this point, what the Prussians do is what they've always done, which is engage in a deep process of reflection, and they decide that in order to defeat France, they must be like France. Remember, this is the French Revolution, and there's a spread of liberalism throughout France because of the revolution. So the Prussians decided to copy the most important reforms of the French Revolution, which include the abomination of serfdom. Now, peasants can become landowners. They destroy monopolies to encourage free market competition. They open the civil service to middle class before it's only available to the nobility. And most important thing is the reforms of a man named William Von Humboldt. He creates the modern research university. So he founded something called the Berlin University. And so he conceptualised the research university, where, before, you sat in class and you listened to lectures and you memorise what the professor told you, but now you encourage to do your own research, to write a thesis, okay, which is what we do today. The most important reform he did was to conceptualise public education as a meritocracy, as an opportunity for the middle class to grow Okay, to grow the middle class and to give the middle class a greater economic role in society. And these reforms, in only a few years, will allow Prussia to defeat Napoleon and establish itself as a great power. Again, this is Carl von Clausewitz, and he's considered the greatest military strategist of all time. He's Prussian. He he was an officer in the Prussian military, and he thought very deeply about the no problem, sorry, the wars of Napoleon. Why is it that Napoleon and the French were so great? And his conclusion is because they were because they were able to mobilise the resources of society for total war, okay? And his conclusion is that in the future as a nation, if you want to win military. Early, then you must engage your citizens, okay. You must increase the morale of your citizens. You must make them want to want to die for your nation. All right, 1848 is one of the most important years in human history, and the reason why is in 1848 Okay, these red spots, these were all revolution hot spots. Okay, so after Napoleon was defeated in 1815 the European powers led by Martinek of the Austrian hungry empire, he sits everyone down and decides, first of all, how to ensure no wars like like that of Napoleon arise again in Europe, how to create peace, but also, most important, how to maintain the feudal structure of Europe. Okay, and he and they were very successful at that until 1848 when the middle class, when the workers, rebelled in 17 different places, you will notice that in England, in Britain, there was no revolution. There were no rebellions. And the reason why is because Britain at this point had colonies overseas, right? Canada, New Zealand, Australia. And so these people who are upset about the economic status in Britain could migrate elsewhere, but these other places did not have any colonies. There was no pressure valve for social discontent. And so these revolutions start to take place. A lot of these revolutions were suppressed violently. And you would think that Prussia, because it is a military dictatorship, it would suppress the the middle class liberals violently. But that's not what happened. Okay, let's see what happened. So this is from Wikipedia. What happened was that there were public demonstrations because people wanted more political reforms, right? And the Army killed certain people, and now people are really, really angry, so they erake their case. They're getting ready for civil war. Okay, this is another French Revolution, and at this point the Emperor Frederick, William, what he does is he goes and reassures the public that they will negotiate a peace. And what he does to calm the public is the king also proved arming the citizens. He gives guns to the citizens to ensure that the citizens, citizens will feel safe negotiating with the army, okay, but not only that, but when the crowds of people went to the king, the king basically agreed to all their demands, including parliamentary elections, a constitution and freedom of press. Also, he promised everyone that Prussia was to be merged forthwith into Germany, because not only is there liberal, socialist sentiments at this point, there's also nationalist sentiments. People want to feel united as a German people okay? And then what calms people down is the king attends a funeral for those citizens who died during the rebellion, okay? And they wore, okay? He and his ministers wore the revolutionary tricolour, black, red and gold, which is, by the way, the flag of Germany right now. Okay, so he's showing tremendous respect to his people, okay? And that's just the Prussian attitude, again, the historical image of Prussians is very stern, very austere, very dictatorial, okay, but if you look at their behaviour, they're very respectful of the people, because they understand that in this world, we're surrounded by enemies, their essential power, with France, Russia all around them. They need to stay united as a people.

Prof. Jiang  19:05  
Okay. This is Otto von Bismarck, the most famous Prussian in world history. He is the founder of something called the second Reich. The Holy Roman Empire is the First Reich, and the unified Germany is the second Reich. So he's really the founder of modern day Germany. He's known as the Iron Chancellor because he gave a speech in which he said that the position of pressure in Germany will not be determined by its liberalism, but by its power. Okay, so he's rejecting the idea of liberalism, of free speech, of openness, of negotiation, of institutions, and he's focusing on the military. Prussia must concentrate its strength and hold it for the favourable moment which has already come and gone several times since the treaties of Vienna, our frontiers have been ill designed for a healthy body politic, not free speech is a majority decision. Questions, will the great questions of the day be decided? That was a great mistake of 1848 and 1849 but by iron and blood, okay? For violence and sacrifice. So if you So, when you read the speech, you understand that he's repudiating the liberalism of King Frederick Wilhelm. Okay? He's saying that, nope, the army should have gone in and killed all the demonstrators. Okay? So that's what he's saying, and that's why he has a reputation for being the iron Chancellor, a man of violence, a man of sternness, okay, but he was extremely pragmatic man, and his ambition was to have a unified Germany in which people were content, okay? And so this is another speech he made, same man, but completely different tone. And so he says, the real grievance of the worker is the insecurity of his existence. He is not sure that he will always have work. He is not sure that he'll be that he will always be healthy, and he perceives that he will one day be old and unfit to work. Okay, so he's sympathising the plight of the factory worker. He understands that it's wrong for workers to lose their hand at work and not be compensated. It's wrong for workers to get sick and their entire family to go into poverty. It's what it's wrong for kids who are six years old to go to factories to work. It's wrong for managers to beat the crap out of other factory workers. So what they will do is Institute The first welfare state, the first socialist state in the world. Okay, look at this. They have health insurance. They have accident insurance. So if you get, if you get injured in at work, then the state will come in and give you money. They have a pension. They protect workers from abuse. They have children Protection Act, which means work children are not allowed to go work in factories, okay? So in other words, in the year 1800 to 1900 if you could be a citizen of anywhere in the world, you would definitely want to be a citizen of Germany. Okay, at this point in Britain, in France, in America, workers are being split everywhere. But in Germany, workers are being given rights, and because they're being because they're giving being given rights, they want to fight for their country. They want to die for the country. And this makes Germany the most powerful nation in the world at this time, okay? And when that happens in Europe when you become a hegemon, guess who gets scared at you? Guess who's now going to plot to get rid of you? Britain, right? All right. So at the same time, I don't want to say that Germany is a liberal democracy. At this point, it's not why, because, as these industrial reforms are happening, there are more groups that are discontent, okay, and they pose a problem to German unity, okay? And these groups are obviously the Catholics. A third of Germany now is Catholic because Prussia has united all of Germany, right? The longest time the Holy Roman Empire was Catholic. So a third of all the people is Catholic. Bismarck, his biggest failure, his biggest mistake, was his attempt to suppress the Catholics. Okay? He basically said, listen, we're not going to fund you anymore, and if you insist on swearing loyal to the Pope, then we'll put you in prison. You will not destroy loyalty to Germany. And so the priests all went to prison, okay? And this is a disaster for Bismarck, and ultimately he had to compromise and relent. Okay, so the Catholics are a huge problem. Then you have the liberals. Okay, so you may have heard the term liberalism, socialism, communism. There's a huge difference between these three terms, guys. Okay, so let me explain what the differences are. Liberalism means more political rights for the middle class, right, freedom of speech, freedom of assembly, voting power. Why? Because the middle class have economic power, and they want to transform that into political power. Okay, the socialists want democracy for all they understand that for democracy to really happen, you need to provide worker protection, you need to create class consciousness, you need to let workers have unions. Okay? So that's socialism. Then you have communism, which is more radical. Basically, communists believe wealth should be redistributed, okay? We should get rid of private property and redistribute wealth for more equality in society. Also, communism is an international movement, okay? You also have Polish nationalists. A lot of people in Germany at this time are poles. They're slain. People who have their own language, have their own ethnic identity, and ultimately they will form Poland, okay? And at this time, they're a huge problem for the German state, and they are suppressed as well. The other people call the anarchists. The anarchists are people who believe that we don't need government, we don't need authority. People just should just be allowed to do what they want to do. People are self organising, and as a result, government is bad. Okay, so if all these different political groups and all very powerful, and they all pose a problem to German unity, and as a result, they are persecuted one by one. This is important, because at the end of World War One, when Germany has surrendered, they will reflect on why they lost, and one conclusion that they had was because of all these political divisions. Okay, there are too many divisions within society, therefore we need to suppress this division and create one political entity. And this is what allows for the rise, of course, of Hitler and the Nazis. Okay, so this is important to understand, all right, World War One again, when, if Germany is too powerful, Britain is forced into action. Britain cannot allow for hegemon to be dominant in Europe. Britain went into action against Napoleon when Napoleon was a hegemon. Now they're going into action against Germany, because Germany is too powerful, okay? And World War One, no one expected this, but War One was a catastrophe, okay? Millions of people died, and it was an alliance of Britain, France and Russia, basically against Germany. I mean, Germany did have the Ottoman Empire and the Austria Hungary Empire as allies, but they were not effective. It was really Germany versus the world. And what's amazing is Germany was able to create a stalemate, or even actually sometimes when Germany was about to win, okay? And of course, when that happens, if Germany is going to win this war, it forces the Americans into action, okay? Why? Well, first of all, the Americans think like the British, the Americans and British do not want a European powder merge, to unite the heartland, okay, to unite Asia and Europe, because then it negates naval trade. Okay. Does that make sense? Second reason is, the Americans actually lend a lot of money to the British, okay, something called a land lease policy. So if Britain lost the war, then all that money is gone. Okay? So America comes in to save Britain, okay, but even at this point, this really important, even at this point, Germany, it was not clear Germany was going to lose the war, okay, Russia was not of the War. France was divided, Britain was on effect. Was not that effectual. So it's not clear at this point, Germany was gonna lose, okay, Chancellor, Germany was gonna lose, but Germany had not lost yet, and if Germany could mobilise all its resources, then Germany could withstand this onslaught. But then something happened that was very important that changed the mind the calculus of these German generals, the 1917 Russian Revolution. Why the revolution happened? Because Tsar Nicholas was too focused on the war, and he neglected the political divisions at home. Okay? And this allowed for a revolution happen. So the German generals, who are controlled German at this point, they're scared to death of this happening in Germany. Because remember, at this point in history, the nation with the strongest working class, the proletariat, is actually Germany, not Russia, okay, so as a result,

Prof. Jiang  28:38  
the this man, name is Paul von Hindenburg. He's very important. He's now head of the German military, as well as head of the German nation, and he forced the German government to surrender to the Allies. Okay? And this led to the 1919, Treaty of Versailles. The Treaty of Versailles had many stipulations that were unfair to the Germans. Okay? So the Germans had to pay a lot of debt. They had they could no longer re arm. They had to reduce the military. They lost a lot of land to France, okay, but the worst thing that the Allies did in this negotiation was it forced Germany to omit complete guilt for starting the war that was completely unfair. Okay? This war happened for many reasons. Everyone was involved. Everyone had a certain blame, but Germany had to take all the blame, okay? And as a result, the government did not want to sign this treaty, because obviously this is going to piss off all your people, but the army forced the government to sign the treaty, okay? And the thinking of the army at this point is, listen, we've been in a situation before. Okay? We lost Napoleon, right? And so. We just paid off a lot of debt to Napoleon, and then we built, okay? And then when we built, we made, we made that nation stronger. We're resilient, so we'll do the same thing here. Okay? We'll just surrender, accept all the terms. Then we'll start to rebuild and unify the nation and take, revenge against everyone, okay, not now. It's like the thinking of the military, okay, very simple strategy, right? The Weimar Republic is what follows after the war, and the Weibo Republic is 10 years of hyperinflation, social discontent, complete chaos, okay? And when a nation suffers, economically, politically, culturally, what it often does is it engages in a deep process of reflection. It goes back into the past and thinks about how to rebuild itself. Okay? So some philosophers that are very important for thinkers of how to unify Germany are are like Arthur schopenheimer, okay, Arthur schopenheim is very, very important philosopher, all right. His conception of the world is that the underlying force of the world is the will, okay, desire and the will manifest benefits itself, itself physically in us, in bodies. Okay, do you understand the idea? Okay, so the underlying force of the universe is the will desire, and then the will will physically manifest itself in our bodies. And then our bodies will seek to do what the will want, which is to procreate, right? To have sex, to have children, to eat food, okay, now the Great, the Great, the paradox of this situation is, before our the manifestation in our bodies, the will was just one, right? There was no differentiation. But once the will manifests itself in our bodies, there's now differentiation, okay? There's multiple, multiple multiplicity. And as such, we see the world for our own perspective, for our own selfish perspective, which leads to conflict. You understand it is because we've forgotten that we are just one that leads to conflict and suffering. Okay? So his great solution to this is compassion. As humans, we must first and foremost, be compassionate towards each other and remind ourselves that we are just one people, okay? And we can do that through the appreciation of art, because art is a great unifier, right? Art is the thing that allows us to contemplate the wholeness and the harmony of the world. And then he says that there's some of us who should engage in self denial, who's become like monks, who should deny, who should deny the world, because the world is inherently evil, right? So when you refuse to have children, when you refuse to struggle, to suffer, then you achieve enlightenment, okay? And this is easy for us to understand, because this is a very Buddhist ideology, okay, so he's basically taking Buddhism and Hinduism from India, and he's making it more secular. He's trying to remove the religious aspects of it and make it into a logical system, okay, does that make sense? All right, so he says, life has no intrinsic worth, but is kept in motion merely by desire and illusion. And as such, if you can remove the desire from your life, you achieve nirvana. You achieve enlightenment, okay, this is really important passage, okay. Music is thus, by no means like the other arts, the copy of the ideas, or the copy of the will itself, whose objectivity the ideas are. This is why the effect of music is so much more powerful and penetrating than that of the other arts, for they speak only of shadows, but it speaks of the thing itself. Okay, this is really important. So how do we know the will? How can we access the will? It's for music, okay? Because the music is a perfect encapsulation of desire, right? It is the perfect expression of emotions. And so for music, we can rediscover the unity of the world, the unity of the will. And then, why is this important? Because it inspires. Richard Wagner. Okay, Richard Wagner is the most famous musician in Germany. He's really the national poet of Germany. He's a genius, and his great insight is that all art can be combined into one, okay? And this is before movies, right? This is this book before cinema, so you can put in music, paintings, theatre, poetry, philosophy, everything together to create one total art that will inspire and unite the people. And this is why he spends 30 years to create something called the ring trilogy. Okay? And. Is held every year at the Bay roof Festival. He creates his own Opera House in order to stage a play. And it's 15 hours, okay? It's four parts, 15 hours. And it's the inspiration for the Lord of the Rings movies. I'm sure you've seen Lord of the Rings, right? It's a very similar plot, okay? And the plot very simple. It's 15 hours. Sorry, it's not a simple plot, but I'll put it in very simple terms. It's 15 hours, four parts. Okay, so there are people called the Rhine maidens. Okay, these are, these are river goddesses who control the River Rhine, and they have a lot of gold. There's a dwarf, an evil dwarf, who steals all this gold, and with all this gold, he crafts a ring to control the world, okay, to rule the world. And this is important because it's actually taking schopenheimer's philosophy, right? Desire is a source of evil in the world, and turn it into a metaphor. The ring is desire. The ring is what represents evil and suffering in the world, and because we all seek the ring, we cause misery. All right, okay, so this is what this how it starts. Now, up in the sky, there's a god named Warton. Okay, so Wagner is using a lot of Norse mythology that we learned before from the Vikings, right? Wotton is another name for Odin and Walton and the gods want to create a palace for themselves called Valhalla, okay? And they hire a giant to build this Valhalla, okay? And they sign a contract with him, but the Giants want payment first. Okay, so Walden and the gods steal this ring from the dwarf, okay? And they give it to the giant. But then the dwarf places a curse on this ring, and the curse is that the gods will see the their end, the end of days, Wagner rock every day, okay? So the gods are haunted, and so the gods are like, we need to destroy this ring, otherwise we're always going to be haunted. We won't be able to sleep, okay, and so they need to kill the giant and get the ring back. But they have a contract with this giant, so Odin a Warton conspires to give birth to a great hero who's half human, half god, but he's not fully God, who will now go kill the giant and get the ring back. Okay, that's, that's his great idea.

Prof. Jiang  37:32  
So he gives birth to twins, siglindi and Sigmund. They're separated at birth. They're twins, and then they run into each other, and they fall in love with each other. Remember, they're twins. Okay? Selinda is already married, and so Sigmund is determined to kill her husband, hun dig and marry Celine day, okay? And this is all part of Wharton's plan. He's really happy, but then his wife frica says to him, no no, no, no no. They broke in the incest law. Okay? They're not allowed to have sincest with each other, and so you have to kill Sigmund. And Wharton doesn't have a choice in the matter. He has to, he has to agree to the death of Sigmund. Okay? So he sends his daughter, a Valkyrie named burhindi, to go make sure that Sigmund is killed against hun din, but bun Hindi, when she arrives, she sees the love between st Monday and sorry, st Helen De and Sigmund, and she wants to save Sigmund and defy Wharton's orders. Wharton hears about this and punishes burhandi and kills Sigmund, okay, and what he does by punishing burhandi Is he sentences her to eternal sleep surrounded by a wall flames, only the greatest hero in the world, the hero who is capable of killing a giant and retrieving the ring, can save her. And this hero is named Siegfried, who's the son of Sigmund. Okay, this is act three. Now Sigmund saves her, kills the giant, and now has retrieved the ring, but because he has a ring, now everyone around him is now conspiring to kill him and get the ring for themselves. Okay, the problem with desire, which causes misery. So in the end, what happens is that Siegfried is killed brihin, the learns of this treachery, and then she kills those who killed him. And then what she does is she sacrificed herself in the flames and throws the ring back to the river maidens. Okay? And then what happens, and this is the ending, is the river maidens destroy the ring, but when they destroy the ring, they destroy everything. Okay? Destroy Valhalla as well. The gods are destroyed. Bahala is destroyed. The entire world is destroyed, okay? And this goes back to the Schopenhauer idea that the source of the world is the desire. Okay? When you destroy desire, you destroy the world. But when you do that, you allow for a new beginning. Okay, so that's the national epic of Germany, the Ring cycle. And again, this is put on every year at Beirut. It's four nights and it's 15 hours in total. There are some theatres that put on 15 hours straight, okay, and the Germans love this All right, so I'm gonna play for you some music from this opera. And this is the most famous part called the ride of the vacays. Okay?

Prof. Jiang  40:52  
As you can see, it's very powerful, right? It represents the unity of the will. So as people are watching this, they become united as one time space collapse, past present collapse.

Prof. Jiang  41:11  
This is meant to depict the will, the unity of the will.

Prof. Jiang  41:38  
Okay, that's it great. Let's move on. Okay, so, building on top of Wagner and schopenheimer is Frederick Nietzsche, okay, who is considered one of the greatest German philosophers of all time, okay, and he makes certain corrections to the philosophy of schopenheimer and the music of Wagner. All right, here are the three major differences between schopenheimer and Nietzsche. You can see that schopenheimer He's a pessimistic Plato, whereas Nietzsche is an optimistic Aristotle. So Nietzsche's main complaint is this, okay, schopenhauer's conception is the source everything is desire, and from desire, desire will manifest itself in physical bodies in order to obtain what it wants, okay? And that's true, that makes sense. And then Schopenhauer solution is, then we must deny this desire, okay? We must negate this desire, and then we will bring peace to the world. So for Nietzsche, this is confusing, because, wait a minute here, the desire, the will manifest itself in physical bodies. Why would it do that? What's the logic of that? Okay? And Sharma numbers say, well, because God is evil, because God wants us to suffer. And then Nietzsche is like, okay. First of all, if God is evil, what's the point of resisting him? Right? If it brings us enjoyment to seek desire, then what's wrong with it? Is it possible that God is good and that God lets desire benefits itself in us in order for us to pursue our desire. Okay, so this is one of the major differences. For schopenheimer, we are just biological beings that have a will to life. We want to procreate. But for Nietzsche, it's the will to power, okay, this is very, really famous phrase from Nietzsche, the will to power, the will to expand ourselves, okay, the will to achieve our fullest desires. Okay, not just to procreate, but to impose our will on reality itself. That's the true purpose of life. That's why God created us to become Gods ourselves. Otherwise, this makes no sense. How do we go from desire to bodies? It only makes sense if the bodies can amplify our desire and help us achieve our desire. Okay, the will to power is a really important concept. Schopenhauer believes that multiplicity is conflict, the fact that we this will manifest itself and our bodies can only lead to conflict because we're all fighting for scarce resources. For example, the ability to procreate, okay? But for Nietzsche, multiplicity is creativity. It's because there's conflict that you have action, and action leads to innovation, and innovation by itself, is progress, okay? And so for schopenheimer, the ideal person, the Superman, is the compassionate monk, the person who feels sympathy for the world and as such, engages in a process of self denial, self negation. He refuses. Procreate. He refuses to struggle. He refuses to eat, okay, the monk. But for Nietzsche, the ideal is the Uber much, the Uber months. The Obermann is hard to translate, which usually translated as Superman, but you can also translate it as over man, okay, the person above humanity, the person above history. So, the ideal, the Paragon, the example that Nietzsche uses, is Napoleon, right? Who's Napoleon? Napoleon is an individual who can step outside of history, to control history, to manipulate history. That's what the ubermans is. Okay? We ourselves are always controlled by social forces, right? We don't want to piss off our classmates. We want to please our teachers and our parents. So therefore we are slaves to public opinion. But Nietzsche says, To be an Uberman, you have to ignore public opinion. You have to ignore community consensus and just focus on what is right to you to look deep into yourself and figure out what is right for you and only you, okay, that's the Uber much. And for him, the ideal example, of course, is Napoleon, okay? And why is this important? Because these ideas in the context of Weimar Republic will lead to the rise of the Nazis and Hitler. Okay? Because Hitler is promising himself to be the next Napoleon, right? That's Hitler's promise to the German people. I will be your Napoleon. I will unite you, and I will lead you to victory against all enemies, right. Okay, does that make sense? Guys following this All right, so let's look at a couple of passages from Nietzsche. Okay, Nietzsche is a very brilliant philosopher, so he's very complicated. He's very complex. He can have time to be very contradictory. Okay, all right, so let's read a passage from the Genealogy of Morals, which is, which is his most famous book. We can no longer conceal from ourselves precisely what this will, under the direction of the ascetic ideal, expresses, which is hatred of anything human, animal or material, abhorrence of the senses of reason itself, fear of happiness and beauty, that the desire to escape from all illusion, change, growth, death, wishing even from desiring itself. All this means let us have the courage to confront it, a wish for Oblivion, an aversion to life, a reputation of everything vital to existence. But it is and remains a will to say at the end that which I said at the beginning, men will desire Oblivion, rather than not desire at all. We are desire. Okay, so it's really a question of how we manifest our desire in today's society, in the Christian, Buddhist world worldview, it's important to negate our desire, but when we negate our desire, we negate what our desire could lead us to, which is truth and beauty and creativity and progress, Innovation, okay? And when we negate ourselves, we're not returning back to Unity, we are only embracing oblivion. Okay? That's a problem with Christianity. It's all it's turning us into slaves. That's a problem with modernity. That's a problem with society. We are all being forced to become slaves, okay, does that make sense? All right, let's go on to call the tame an animal improving. It sounds to ears almost like a joke. He who knows what goes on in menageries doubts very much whether an animal is improved in such places. It's certainly weakened. It is made less dangerous, and by means of the depressing influence of fear, pain, wounds and hunger, it is converted into a sick animal, and the same holds good of the tame man whom the priest has improved. Okay, this is a great metaphor. How can we understand the impact of society on people? Well, society is a zoo, okay? We're all cage animals, and think about it. Okay, what is school? Then school is a zoo. Okay? Before you were allowed to run around and explore the world and learn things for yourself, right? And as such, you master the world around you. You could hunt, you could farm, you could kill people, you could build alliances, you could write plays. But in school, what do we ask you to do? We ask you to come to school. We ask you to come to class on time, take notes, take tasks, and then we give you a piece of paper, right? We turn you into caged animals, so you lose the capacity to think for yourself, right? That's what school is. So there's nothing wrong with what Nietzsche is saying. Okay, this is a good metaphor to capture the essence of modernity. Okay? Society, education, it's all meant to degrade your capacity to think for yourself in order to make you more obedient to power.

Prof. Jiang  49:53  
Okay, all right, so if you take schopenheimer. Wagner and Nietzsche together, you combine them, what you get is a rejection of Christianity and return to paganism. Okay, so let's go the differences. In the Christian worldview, there is a God, if there's a God, there's a there is a framework of good and evil. So you must do good and you must avoid evil, okay? But in the pagan worldview, there is no God, there's more. There's many gods, but the gods themselves have no power over fate, and as a result, it's up to you to define good and evil. It's up to you to act and to find meaning in the world. Okay, so going back to school, the metaphor right? Today, we have grades, and therefore you're focused on getting grades. But if we had no grades, we have no teachers, then you have to go learn for yourself. You have to. You would have to go figure out your own education. What's amazing about this idea is you would want to, because Nietzsche says we are first and foremost desire. We desire to grow. So if we left you alone and said, no grades, no school, no test. It does not mean that you will stop learning. It just means that you will learn what you want to learn. Okay, all right. Second difference, Christianity demands faith, obedience to God. Paganism demands action. Okay, you seek meaning for yourself through action. The last difference is Christianity focus on individual free will, okay, which just means you are free to obey the powerful. But in the pagan mindset, it's about unity of will, okay? If we if we want to act, we can only do so by working together. All right, we will find a leader to lead us, but the leader only represents the unity of will. Okay, does that make sense? So during the wedding Republic or the rise of Nazism, you now have a rejection of Christianity and return to paganism as a solution to the national humiliation of Germany, all right? And this is what leads to the rise of Adolf Hitler. Okay. This man is Paul von Hindenburg, the very the same man who ordered the surrender of Germany in 1933 he is president of Germany, the leader, and he appoints Adolf Hitler, the Chancellor of Germany. Okay. The question then is, why would he do that, right? Yeah. I mean, like, why would the head of the Army, the head of the nation, make out of Hitler Chancellor, and the reason is this, out of Hitler was a German spy. He was a German Sorry, sorry. He was a spy for the German army. Okay, this is really important. Let me explain this. This is from Wikipedia. Guys, okay, so I'm making this up. It says very clearly, as an intelligence agent of the Army, Hitler was to influence other soldiers and to infiltrate the German Workers Party, okay, the Nazi Party, National Socialists. Okay. So why is this happening? So remember, the German army surrendered because they were afraid of revolution back at home. Who is leading the revolution? The extreme left and extreme right? Okay, what's the difference between extreme left and extreme right? Both are populists. They all believe in workers' rights. The left believe in international solidarity, okay, specifically with Russia, the Soviet Union and other workers in the world the right are nationalists. They believe in German unity. Okay? So the army is like, Okay, right now, the most powerful group in Germany are the socialists, right, the left. We need to support the right. So Hitler goes into the Nazi Party, German Workers Party, and he helps to finance it. Okay? Hitler is giving money to these guys, and because he's such a charismatic speaker, he eventually becomes their leader by this point in history. Okay, this is really important. This is a really small group of people. They're extreme, they're violent, but they are a minority, the majority of the socialists. Okay, this is something that you're not taught in school, but this is very important to remember, it is the army that finances the building of the Nazi Party in order to deepen the influence of the socialists. Because, remember, the army now is still dedicated to avenging the national humiliation of World War One. Okay, all right. So this is Carol Quigley, and he wrote a long book called tragedy and hope, okay. And he explains in oh so sorry. Carol Quigley, he is a professor. He was a professor at Georgetown University in Washington, DC. He was Bill Clinton's teacher. Okay, he was Bill Clinton's teacher. And he's a widely respected scholar. And in his book, he explains how Hitler was able to rise and take over the leadership of Germany. He explains, at this point in history that Germany is threatened by two opposing forces. The. First force, of course, is communism, right? The Soviet Union. That's a huge menace to Germany. But another menace that's actually even more menacing is capitalism. Okay? Because at this point in history, what's happening is the International capitalists are trying to create a central banking system in order to control the entire global economy. He writes about this. This is 1920s the powers of financial capitalism had another far reaching aim, nothing less than create a world system of financial control in private hands, able to dominate the political system of each country in the economy of the world as a whole. Okay, this is really important to understand. 1920s all these bankers in the world, America, Britain, France, Germany, they're getting together, and they're conspiring on how to create a global financial system that can control the world and create a feudal system, right? And guess what? Guys, you don't know this, but they succeeded. The system we have today is the one they created, okay, but I will explain this later on in the course. Okay, but this is something that the Germans, nationalists like Hitler, didn't want. Okay, so Hitler, he's allowed to rise, and the Nazi Party is becoming more and more popular. But again, even though they are popular, they're not as popular as a socialist. Okay, so what happens now is the army and the Nazi Party get together and assume power, okay, so the first step for Hitler in order to assume power is something called the Knight of the Long Knives. Okay, this is really important, because the Nazi Party is an extreme right wing Workers Party, right? So the army orders Hitler to kill all their leaders, and that's what and that's what happened. This is called a Night of the Long Life the brown shirts, the extreme right wing, was eliminated by the army and the Nazi Party, and now the arm, sorry. So now the Nazi Party and the army are now symbiotic. Okay? They rely on each other. From now on, the Nazi Party will ensure total unity of will at home through suppression of people, okay, and the army will now go march and conquer the world. Doesn't make sense, guys, that's plan. All right, so Adolf Hitler is the perfect man for the job assigned him by the army because he is a fantastic speaker. Okay? He's very charismatic. We're gonna listen to his voice so you can appreciate how powerful his speech is. His voice

Unknown Speaker  57:38  
is Darby

Prof. Jiang  57:45  
tried, what his speeches do is he they create unit will in Germany. Okay? Again, the goal is to rejuvenize the nation and reunite the German people, right? And so the unit will create the idea of synchronicity. Remember, synchronicity is a secret to Modern Warfare. Synchronicity means the organisation and mobilisation of your people into one task. And this is represented by the picture. If you get people to stand in line for a long time, you can fight a war, okay? And the people and the nations that are really strong at synchronicity, of course, are Germany and Japan, right? Go to Germany. Go on the subway. Go to Japan. Go on the subway. No one is struggling against each other, okay, no one's pushing everyone. Even though it's crowded, people are sitting exactly where they should be standing perfectly. That is the idea of synchronicity. If your people can do that, they can fight a war and win the war. Okay? So this idea of unit of will, all right? They can stand in line for a long, long time. All right, all right. So we look at some speeches from Hitler, from Hitler, okay? And we can see from his speeches, he's trying to create unit of will. He's trying to be the umermats, the superman who will unite his people like Napoleon and carry them to victory through faith in themselves, the unit of will. If men wish to live, then they are forced to kill others. The entire struggle of survival is a conquest of a means of existence, which in turn results in elimination of others from the same sources of subsistence. As long as there are peoples on this earth, there will be nations against nations, and they will be forced to protect their vital rights in the same way as the individual is forced to protect his rights. One is either the hammer or the anvil. We confess that it is our purpose to prepare the German people again for the role of the hammer. Okay, so he's saying we must unite as a people. We must have unit of will if we are if we are to triumph against our enemies. All right? Right? Nothing is possible unless one will command a will which has to be obeyed by others, beginning at the top and ending only at the very bottom. This is the expression of an authoritarian state, not of a weak, babbling democracy, of an authoritarian state where everyone is proud to obey because he knows I will, like life likewise, be obeyed when I must take command. All right, Hitler is not being a dictator. He is trying to create unit of will. He is the leader. He's the Uberman, but that's only because God demanded him to be So, okay, he will unite the German people into a hurricane, into an ocean to crash itself upon the world in the course of my life, I have very often been a prophet, and I have usually been ridiculed for it. During the time of my struggle for power, it was in the first instance, the Jewish race which only received my prophecies with laughter when I said that I would one day take over the leadership of the state and with it that of the whole nation, and that I would then, among many other things, settle the Jewish problem. Their laughter was uproarious, but I think that for some time now they have been laughing on the other side of their face. Today, I will once more be a prophet the National Jewish financiers in and outside Europe should succeed in plunging the nations once more into a world war. Then the result will not be the bolshevisation of the earth and thus the victory of Jewry, the annihilation of the Jewish race in Europe. Okay, so we don't actually have any concrete evidence for the Holocaust, okay, so one piece of evidence for the Holocaust is this speech by Hitler, but I want to explain what he is saying here, okay, what he's saying is, we, the German nation, want to be left alone. We want to be united. We want to be unified, but the capitalists and the communists all seek to undermine us. And who are the communists and who are the capitalists, the Jews? Okay, it's a Jews who are metaphor for national illegal individuals who are conspiring to undermine the vitality and the strength of the germination, right? So that's what he's saying here, all right? 1939, September 1, is the beginning of World War Two. Okay? And so he's gonna explain why this is happening. As a national socialist and as a German soldier, I end upon a struggle restored heart. My whole life has been nothing but one struggle for my people, for its restoration, and for Germany. There was only one watch word for that struggle, favouring this people. One word I never learned that is surrender. Okay, so he's telling the people, we're gonna fight this war again. Why did we lose World War One? Because we have faith. We surrendered. If we all came together and we fought to the very better end, we would have prevailed against our enemies. Okay, it is quite unimportant whether we ourselves live, but it's essential that our people shall live, that Germany shall live, the sacrifice that is amended of us is not greater than a sacrifice that many generations have made. If we form a community closely bound together by vows, ready for anything, resolve, never to surrender and our will will master every hardship and difficulty, okay, it is the unity of will that matters, all right. 1942, number eight. It's basically at a time in history when the Germans understand they've lost the war. The Americans are now in. Are now in the war. The Americans are getting ready to invade Europe. The German invasion of the Soviet Union has failed. Okay, they're bogged down in the Soviet Union. Germany is overstretched. The entire world has allied itself against Germany. Okay, so the war is about to be lost, but let's, let's look at what Hitler has to say. It is with the same conviction that I now stand before you, and has never left me, either, since the day on which, as an unknown man in the city, I began to struggle, first with the soul of the German people, and then on beyond the city for more and more followers. In the beginning, I did not have much more to give than faith, the faith that if anyone pursues a just aim, I with unchanging and undisturbed loyalty and never lets himself be diverted from it, but puts everything into it, then others will be found who are determined to be his followers. And that from this host and ever stronger faith must gradually radiate to the whole people. Okay, so this is unit of will we reject reality. Reality does not matter because we impose our will on reality, as long as we have faith, as long as as long as we have unit of will, we will triumph. Okay, all right, so let's go back to the beginning. We were talking about kalanigrad, right? It is one of the greatest injustices in human history that carnesburg, which was for the longest time, the cradle of human civilization, the epicentre of the Enlightenment. It is now completely destroyed, okay, but. It. And this is a really, this idea from Wagner, okay, by destroying this, the world has cursed itself, okay, let me explain why. First of all, the German question now is more relevant than ever before. You've destroyed konsberg, but you have not destroyed the desire for unity among the German people. Okay, so this is the memory that will not fade. Okay. So will the Germans seek vengeance? Will another Hitler arise to unite the German people? Now, what you guys don't know is that the Prussians one of the main forces opposing Hitler, as well as inhibiting Hitler, because Prussia had a very proud culture, and it's very strongest part of Germany. But now that they destroyed Prussia, if another Hitler arises, there's really nothing to stop him. Okay, that's the first problem. Second question is, okay, let's go back to this map, Europe and Russia are about to go to war with each other, right? Okay, well, if you are Europe and you go into Ukraine, you're gonna be slaughtered, okay, but this is klannograd, Russian territory, 500,000 Russians, right? You can blockade Klan and grad, you understand? So this could be the start of World War Three, right here. Does that make sense? You guys? The Europeans blockade Klan and grad, and they start to try to starve the people put in without no choice but to intervene. Okay, but the main problem is this, konarsburg was one of the main intellectual, scientific and cultural centres of Europe, that its loss reduced the innovative potential of humanity, all right? So what I will show you next class, when we discuss Kant is, science comes from philosophy. Okay? Culture leads to philosophy, which leads to science, which leads to technology. You cannot have science independent of philosophy. When you destroy a centre of philosophy innovation, you destroy a centre for scientific progress. Okay? So that this is something that we will discuss in depth next class as well. So when we look at Kant so that is Germany. Okay, any questions about what we've learned so far? Was this clear to you guys? Okay, any questions to me, how can Hitler be grown

Prof. Jiang  1:07:42  
like that? Yeah? Okay, so where did Hitler come from, right? How did Hitler become so charismatic? Okay, so there's a lot of randomness to life, okay, there's a lot of like, randomness going on in life. So the army wanted to inhibit the growth of the socialist left wing movement, and it did so by financing these right wing parties. The Nazi Party was just one of many parties that the army financed and supported. Okay, Hitler became a spy, and he became part of this movement, and as such, he became he became exposed to a lot of the ideas of the Nazi Party. The Nazi party, a lot of ideas come from Nietzsche and Wagner and others as well. Okay, and over time, Hitler came to believe that he was the Messiah. He was the Messiah dedicated to restoring German unity, okay, and I mean, like this hard to understand, but human population is very diverse, so you always have a subset of people who have these delusion of grandeur, and in certain circumstances, they will be proven right. Okay, that doesn't make sense, okay? So another way saying this is the army needed someone to play the part of the ubermans, the superman who could unite the German people and create national unity so the army could seek its vengeance against the rest of Europe and unite the German people. Okay, so they're looking for this role, and then Hitler auditioned for this role, and he got the role. Okay, does that make sense? And this is important, because towards the end of the end of the class, we'll discuss Donald Trump. And what I'll show you is this is exactly what happened with Donald Trump. Okay, so the German sorry, the American military needs an Uberman to lead America to war against Putin. And there were different people who auditioned. Biden. Audition was terrible. Here. Sedition was terrible. They picked Donald Trump. Okay, so it's a very similar pattern. It's a very familiar pattern in human history. You can also argue that Napoleon was the same way. Okay? And what makes these people, these people different from us, Napoleon, Hitler, Julius Caesar, Trump, is they are the total expression of the Zion. Will you understand? They have seen no compassion, no sympathy for anyone. They believe they are here on a divine mission. They are complete. They are the will itself, and they are then they must impose their will on others to save the world. Does that make sense? Should look at Donald Trump. Okay, if you want to send Hitler, look at Donald Trump. The guy's like, almost 80. He doesn't sleep. Okay? He's all trying around the world all the time. The guy, the guy in his when he was complaining, he was giving like, three speeches a day, right? He would get in the morning, at four o'clock, fly somewhere, give us two hour speech. People loved him. Then he would get together, play fly somewhere else, and he would, he could not stop talking to reporters. Okay? He has tremendous energy that comes from the perfect expression of the will you understand Donald Trump is all will, all desire, all ego and no sympathy, no empathy, no compassion. That's Hitler and Napoleon. They're citizen or if they're people think they are like, too relentless, relentless? Yeah, that's a great question. So won't people rebelling against us? Won't people think this is reckless? And so what schopenheimer And Nietzsche and others will say is, what we what we want first and foremost is return to Unity of will. Right in the very beginning, the will was God, that's a big bang, and then the will expanded itself, right? And so we find ourselves alone in an ocean of alienation, and what our hearts really aspire to is return to a unit of will. And so when someone says, you can be part of a movement to transform the world, that's much more appealing to us psychologically than to say, oh, you know what, come to school. Do your homework. Get good grades. Do the SAT get into a top 50 American school, become an accountant, and for 50 years, do something meaningless, but make a lot of money, and then you, you will die happy person. Like, like, seriously, what? Like, there's no competition, right? There's no competition. Donald Trump is saying to Americans, we will make America great again. We will be a civilization, a great civilization. Again, it will require sacrifice. It will require my sacrifice, but it will be worth it, because we will make the world whole again, all right, okay, so again, when you actually the Hitler speeches, from our perspective, it's not that persuasive, okay, but when you're in a crowd of people, and this man is speaking to you with his voice, it's like Wagner, okay? It's like going to a concert. The music fills you and it and it inspires your heart, okay? It makes you want to be the ubermans. Okay? Hitler is just the example, but he's saying, you can, you can, you can also aspire to be the Uber man, if you are willing to sacrifice your life for the unity of will. Okay? So this is really important. This is far more appealing to people than the idea of materialism. This is religion, right? Hitler is creating a new religion, and it's intoxicating. Right? I mean, like World War Two, I mean, I mean the fact that German, the Germans, were able to fight for so long against entire world. I mean, it's incredible. I mean, like, it was America, Britain, France, Soviet Union against the Germans, and the fact that the Germans fought so bravely and fought to the very bitter end. I mean, it just shows you the power of unity of will, okay? And what this also tells us is these things don't die, okay? You can kill a civilization, you can destroy a city, you can massacre a people, but you cannot destroy the desire for unity of will, because that's what fundamentally makes us human. It doesn't make sense. Okay, great. Any more questions, guys, but that's a great question.

Prof. Jiang  1:14:37  
Thank you. Does that make sense to you? Okay, great. Okay, any more questions, guys?

Prof. Jiang  1:14:51  
Okay, so next week we will do Kant Okay, and Kant will lead us to Marx and Freud and. And modernity, okay.

