Prof. Jiang  0:00  
Okay, good morning. So we finished Dante today, and this will be our last session before the semester breaks. We'll come back in a month, and we'll start the second semester. Second semester will be very exciting. We're going to do the Crusades we're getting we're going to do secret societies. We'll do basically the rest of human history. Okay, so before we begin, let's review what we learned last class. Okay, the first point is that there are secrets, mysteries and paradoxes embedded into Dante's Divine Comedy. And the ultimate secret of the universe is that we are in God, and God is in us. And that's the ultimate secret. And it breaks apart the idea of the Holy Holy Trinity. Remember, the idea of the Holy Trinity is that it's an equation that makes God exclusive from us, and at the end of the Divine Comedy, Dante inserts us back into God, which turns the equation back into a story, a story that we are empowered to write, okay, and it creates the idea of infinity. The idea behind this, and this goes back to Homer, is for Dante. Love is the unifying force of the universe. Remember that God is the force within us that enables us to love and connect with others, and then the imagination is the animating force of the universe. The more we love, the more we can imagine. And it is our responsibility, it is our legacy, it is our gift that we are able to imagine the universe and continue the work of God. And the prime example of this is, of course, Dante. What inspires Dante to create the universe that is the Divine Comedy is his love for Beatrice. It is unrecreated. They never got married. They never consummated their love. In fact, Beatrice died when she was very young, but Dante never forgot about her. And it was this love for Dante, sorry, it was this love for Beatrice that would inspire him to create the Divine Comedy, which is the greatest literary achievement in human history. And as we discussed, the second point is that the Divine Comedy, it is historically significant because it becomes an industrial blueprint for the Renaissance, for the Protestant Reformation and the sonic revolution. And then you ask yourself, Wait a minute here, when I read The Divine Comedy, I don't really understand what's going on. So how did it come to be so historically significant? And the answer is this. The answer is that it is poetry, and poetry is a is a unique form of writing. Poetry is meant to be memorised. Okay, so the way you learn, the way you that you educated for 1000 years in Western history, in Western history, is through the memorization of classical poets. So remember the Greeks? How did they educate themselves? They memorise Homer. The Romans memorised Virgil, and the Italians memorise Dante. And poetry is uniquely designed in order to be memorised. And so that's the first step. And then second step is this. Think of poetry as a superfood for the brain. You are what you eat, and your brain thinks the way that it has consumed information. And so poetry is this extremely dense, nutritious food that the brain will use in order to formulate its understanding of the world, okay? And what's really interesting is the brain actually works 99% subconsciously, meaning we are not consciously aware of what the brain is doing most of the time, and what the brain is doing most of the time is trying to figure out the patterns of the universe. The brain does not like paradoxes. It does not like Miss. Threes. It doesn't like it doesn't like contradictions, okay? So it's always trying to resolve these contradictions in order to formulate a coherent understanding of the world. That's why paradox is so powerful within the Divine Comedy with it, as we discussed last class, the divine colony is full of paradoxes which force your brain to constantly work to resolve these paradoxes. The greatest paradox within the divine colony, as we discussed the last class, is the fact that we are within God, and that creates a paradox for the brain to slowly resolve, and once it resolves, it formulates a new understanding of the world. And because of that, this new understanding will become the Renaissance brain, the scientific brain, which will power the rise of modernity. Okay, does that make sense? And so the third point, the most important point, is what Dante realised when he wrote The Divine Comedy. Is he is that if he is to create a new modern brain, if he is to create a new scientific romantic mind, then his true enemy is actually not Augustine, okay, it is actually Virgil. Because at this time, every educated individual was educated through Virgil. It was Virgil's understanding the world that captured the imagination of the European mind, and so Dante, when he writes The Divine Comedy, his mission is to supplant Virgil. It is to remove Virgil from the brain the mind of the European. He basically needs to, he basically needs to, poetically do surgery, okay, and the way, and so what I'll do is this, first, I'll explain the thesis and explain what he's trying to do, and then we'll study the Divine Comedy to see how he does that. Okay, so, so Dante understands that if Virgil has become the basis of your mind, okay, if the Ennead is the way that people fundamentally understand the world. You cannot get go into an open conflict with Virgil, because people will just reject you, right? People will choose their customs, their habits first, and so if you threaten their habits and customs, then they will see you as a threat. They will reject you. So Dante has to perform surgery on the brain that is nuanced and subtle and sophisticated. Okay? And the way he does is the way he does that. It's very clever. Dante makes his arch nemesis, Virgil, the hero of the Divine Comedy. Okay, Virgil is the guide, the narrator, the protagonist of the Divine Comedy. What happens is that we start off with Dante, the poet, lost in the woods, and it's a symbol or metaphor for his midlife crisis. He doesn't know where he's going. He's confused by the world, and suddenly Virgil appears before him and says, I am Virgil the poet, and I've been sent by the lady Beatrice in heaven to guide you through infernal and for purgatory, where you will learn the secrets of the universe, where you will learn the truth about the world. And I am your guide. I will tell you the truth. Okay, so right from the start, we learn that Virgil is the hero, the guide. That's the first thing that happens, and the second thing that happens, second thing that happens is Dante turns him into an unreliable guide. We will discover that Virgil does not speak the truth. In fact, Virgil contradicts himself all the time. The third thing that will happen is, will happen is Virgil, over time, will become displaced by other figures, including Beatrice. All right, so it is one of the greatest literary tricks where Dante understands Virgil is his ultimate nemesis, and in order to defeat Virgil, he makes Virgil the hero of this epic. Okay, does that make sense? All right, so it's the idea of the unreliable narrator.

Prof. Jiang  10:01  
All right, so we're going to study some passages from Divine Comedy to see how Dante does this. And it's very clever. It's almost impossible to spot unless you recognise what Dante is trying to do. Okay, once I tell you what he's doing, it's not as obvious. But again, if you were to read Divine Comedy by yourself, you wouldn't notice it. Okay. But again, the brain works subconsciously, and the brain will slowly, over time, pick up these problems with Virgil and construct a new worldview that is anti Virgil and pro Dante. Okay, that's a trick of the Divine Comedy. Any questions before I continue,

Prof. Jiang  10:48  
are we clear? All right, so, all right, so Virgil and Dante are now going to explore in the inferno, hell, and they first end up in limbo, and Limbo is the outer circle of hell, and it's a very nice place. It's not paradise, it's not great, it's still part of hell, but it's a place specifically for virtuous pagans who were born before the time of Jesus. You can only be saved by Jesus, if you are baptised into the faith, and so if, unfortunately, you were born before the time of Jesus, you are put in limbo, and that's where Virgil is. Okay, so Virgil explains to Dante the kindly master, okay, so there are all these encomiums for Virgil. Virgil is the father to Dante. Virgil is the master to Dante. All right, do you not ask Who are these spirits? Whom you see before you? I have you know before you. Go ahead. Do not sin. Okay? These people are virtuous, including himself. These are people who include Plato Homer, Julius Caesar, okay, these individuals are virtuous, though they have merits. That's not enough, because they lack baptism. Okay? The fundamental rule of Heaven is you have to be baptised into the faith, the portal of the faith that you embrace. And if they live before Christianity, they do not worship God in fitting ways and of such spirits, I myself am one. Okay, this is why I'm here in limbo. I am as virtuous as can be, but because I was not baptised in the faith, I am stuck here. Okay, of course, this raises a question, because Dante has nothing but questions, and Dante asks him this question, is this an iron law of the universe, or were there exceptions? Okay, so he asked, did any ever go by his own merit or others from this place towards blessedness, were they able to ascend into heaven based on his or her own individual struggle and merit? And this is what Virgil says, there was only one time in the entire history of the universe when it was possible for people in limbo to ascend into heaven, and that was the death of Jesus Christ. Remember that he was crucified and He died before he was resurrected, and then when he died, he ascended into the infernal and while he was there, he took the most virtuous members of the Bible, okay, who include Abel, Adam, Noah, Moses, Abraham, David, Israel. He took all of them into heaven. But that was it, okay. And that was a rare event, right? Because Jesus, God only dies once, but that's it, all, right? And so that's what Virgil is saying. Okay? So now that they've been through limbo, what they're going to do is they're going into the inner circles of hell, and the first circle of hell are reserved for those who died, who sinned, because of love, because of lust. Okay? And what's gonna happen is that there's gonna be parade of all these souls, these spirits who are burning in hell because they died for love or lust, they sin out of love. All right, so the first of those about whose history you want to know, My master told me once ruled as Empress over many nations. Her vice of lust became so customary that she made licence. Listed in her laws to free her from a scandal she had caused. She is Semiramis, of whom we read that she was Nina's wife and his successor. Okay, that's the first person they see. She held the land the Sultan now commands all right, but now there's a second person, the other spirit, killed herself for love and she betrayed the ashes of psychiatrist. The what in Cleopatra follows next. All right, so this is interesting. What's going to happen is there'll be about 1000 spirits who are parading before Dante and Virgil. And what's interesting is that Virgil names every one of them except this person, the other spirit, killed herself for love and she betrayed the ashes of psychiatrist this person, her name is Ditto. Who is Ditto? Diddle is from the Ennead right. She is the little creation of Virgil. This is really interesting, because why is ditto in the inferno? Because Virgil put her there. And not only does he put her there? He does not even bother to acknowledge and name her. This is a complete contrast to the relationship between Dante and Beatrice. Now, when you actually read the Ennead, what you discover is that there's only one realistic character in the epic, and it's still the way that she behaves. Her love for in the Aeneas, it's actually it actually makes her a sympathetic character, but it's a love for Aeneas that causes her to to die. Okay, and so who is Ditto? Who is ditto really? Well, if she's a little creation of Virgil's, I can guess. We can surmise that ditto must have existed. And ditto is someone who possibly could have spited A Virgil, right? And that's why Virgil has such venom for her, right? Remember, in the Ennead diddle dies by fling herself into a funeral pyre. Okay? She burns herself to death. It's a terrible way to die, and she dies driven into madness by love. So you can almost make the argument that you can surmise Virgil really hates this person, and she wanted, he wanted to punish her for refusing him in real life. And this is interesting for us. Basis go, this is dramatically opposed to what Dante did, right? Dante loved Beatrice, but he could not, he could not possess Beatrice. So what he does is he creates the Divine Comedy so that Beatrice can be in paradise for the rest of her for all of eternity, okay, this is that much we oppose. So right away from this, we can understand that Dante and Virgil have opposing perspectives on love. These are not friends. These are enemies. All right, now let's continue. Virgil refuses to name ditto, okay, but what Dante will do is name Ditto. Okay, those spirits left the ranks where ditto suffers, where ditto suffers, Virgil, you refuse to acknowledge your creation, but I will, because she deserves our mercy. She deserves our charity and our generosity. So you can see how within the poetry, there's this massive conflict going on between Virgil and Dante, and it's all very subtle, okay, okay. Now they go through Inferno and they end up in Purgatory. Purgatory is this isolated mountain that is the halfway point between Inferno and Paradise. People had to send the Purgatory in order to get into paradise. Okay, and this, these are the first lines of purgatory. I saw a solitary patriarch near me, his aspect worthy of. Its reverence that even son to Father owes no more. This person is Cato. Cato is a Roman Patriarch who opposed Julius Caesar, and when Julius Julius Caesar was about to win the Civil War, Cato killed himself. He committed suicide rather than submit to Julius Caesar. Now, what's interesting about about this is that Cato and virtue are contemporaries. They knew each other in Rome, and when they died, they went to limbo, right? What's interesting is this, where's Cato. Now Cato is in Purgatory, he's left he's left limbo, he's left Inferno.

Prof. Jiang  20:44  
And not only that, but he's become the guardian of purgatory. He's the one who controls access into purgatory. So Virgil is wrong. Remember, Virgil said it is impossible to leave limbo, regardless of your merit, and this right away tells us no, Virgil is not a reliable narrator. Cato has left. Okay. Now you would imagine that because Cato and Virgil know each other. They're like, good friends. Okay, so Virgil, so Kato says to Virgil and Donna, who are you to? How are you able to escape from from hell? Okay? And then Virgil says, let me do the talking, because I know this guy. Okay, we're friends, right? I did not come through my own self. There's a lady sent from heaven, okay, this lady, Beatrice, her please, led me to help and guide this man. But since your will would have a far more full and accurate account of her condition, my will cannot withhold what you request. You want to know why we're here. Let me explain to you why we're here. This man had yet to see his final evening. He's not dead, but for his folly. Little time was left before he did. He was so close to it, he was facing a midlife crisis, as I've told you, I was sent to him for his deliverance. The only road I could have taken was the road I took. I had to take him through hell, okay? And that's why we're here. I showed him all the people of perdition. Now I intend to show him to him those spirits who in your care, remember Kay was the guardian of purgatory, are bound on expiation. Okay? So people are here in purgatory in order to absolve themselves or their sins so they that they may ascend into heaven. Now this is what Virgil says to Cato. You know it who in Utica found death for freedom was not bitter when you left the garb that will be bright on the great day. So I know who you are. You're Cato. You're the person who killed himself in Utica rather than submit to the tyranny of Julius Caesar. Eternal edicts are not broken for us. This man's alive, and I'm not bound by my nose, but I am from the circle where the chaste eyes of your Marcia your wife are. I know your wife, and she still prays to You, O holy breast, to keep her as your own for her love. Then incline to us. Remember, Marcia, your wife, allow our journey through your seven realms. I shall thank her for kindness you bestow. If you would let your name be named below. So what Virgil is doing is saying the Cato, listen, you may be the guardian of purgatory. This is your your Master of this realm, but I have power in hell, so I'm going to go back, and I'm going to be nice to your wife, Marcia, right? So give me some face here, man, you know. And this is what Cato says while I was there within the other world, Marcia so pleased my eyes. He then replied each kindness required I satisfied. Now that she dwells beyond the evil River, she has no power to move me any longer. Such was the law decreed when I was freed. So Cato is upset with this. Cato said, Katie says to Virgil, how dare you bribe me? How dare you do this? Marcia is back in limbo, which means she is no longer as pure in my eyes as I used to think. If I'm able to ascend into purgatory based on my own merit, then so was Marcia. And if she's not, if she's not able to come with me, that means, that means she's not as virtuous as I once thought. Okay, so you can see right away that Virgil is not reliable. He has no authority. 40 over Cato. Cato does not respect him, even though they know each other very well. Okay, does that make sense? Again, this is very, very clever. It's almost impossible to see unless I tell you what's happening. Okay, all right. Now, the question then is, what makes Virgil so unreliable? What is his problem? And what Donnie will reveal to us is it's really Virgil's conception of love that's the issue. Okay, remember, Virgil is someone who can damn ditto into hell, and it is Dante who sent Beatrice into heaven. Okay, so these people have, these two individuals have radical, radically opposing conceptions of love. So let's so we know what Dante thinks about love, okay? Love is the God force. Is the God force within us that connects us with God and the entire universe. And the more that we love, the more imaginative we will be. Okay? So you have to direct this love at someone, but it doesn't really matter that person loves you back. That's not relevant, okay? What's relevant is that you love. So let's look at Virgil's understanding of love, the soul, which is quick to love, responds to everything that pleases just as soon as beauty wakens, it to act okay. So the first thing we have to understand is that we are animals with souls that respond to beauty. If I see a beautiful woman across the street, I stop and I chase her. Okay, that's the first thing he says. Your apprehension draws an image from a real object and expands upon that object until soul has turned toward it. But then you're like, but you don't know this beautiful woman. And what Virgil says is, what happens next is your imagination will take over, and you will turn this woman into a fantasy woman that you can now control. Okay, so let's go back to the example from last class, where you meet this beautiful woman, and you say, I want to marry you because you're so beautiful. And she says, I will if you give me $10 million now if you think about it, she's clearly saying no to you, but it is your imagination that tricks you into believing that as long as you give her $10 million she will love you, okay? Her love is something that you can master and control and possess. And if so turned the soul tend steadfastly, then that propensity is love. It's nature that joins a soul in you a new food, beauty, okay, you must possess her. You will do, you will do everything possible in order to possess her. And that's what love is. All right, you see, you see someone beautiful, you turn her into a fantasy, and then you chase after this fantasy until it's yours. That's what love is. You

Prof. Jiang  28:23  
then, just as flames ascend, because the form of fire was fashioned to fly upward toward the stuff to its own spear, where it lasts longer, okay? So you can understand that what Virgil uses is off natural imagery, okay, fire. So these are things beyond our control, right? We are consumed by our lust and our love for this woman. So does the soul. When sees move into longing, emotion of the spirit, never resting till the beloved thing has made it joyous. We have to possess it. We don't possess it, then we will be depressed. Now you can plainly see how deeply hidden truth is from schooners who would insist that every love is in itself praiseworthy, okay? There's some people who believe that love is beautiful. No, no, no. It depends on who you love, okay? And they are led to error by the matter of love, because it may seem always good, but not each seal is fine, although the wax is okay. If you love a woman who loves you back, that's fine. But if a woman insists that you go rob a bank for $10 million then that's bad. All right, your speech and my own wit that follow it, I answered him. This is Dante. Have shown me what love is, but that has filled me with greater doubt, for if love is offered to us for more vow, and it's the only foot with which soul walks, Soul going straight or crooked has no merit. This is a really interesting question. If it is true that when we see someone beautiful, we must. Have her, then we have no free will. We have no free choice. We're just all animals. And this is what Virgil says, what reason can see here I can impart past that for truth of faith. It's Beatrice alone. You must await every substantial form at once distinct from matter and conjoined to it, and gathers the force that is distinctly its own,

Prof. Jiang  30:32  
a force unknown to us until it acts. It's never shown except in its effects. Just as green boughs display the life in plants, so it is true that our soul wants to possess things that are beautiful, okay? That's what that's what love is. And thus, Man does not know the source of his intelligence or primal notions and is tending towards desires primal objects. Okay? So we are not aware of the lust within us. We are not aware of how our soul works. Both are in you, just as in bees, there is the honey making urge. Such primal will deserves no praise. It deserves no blame. Okay, we just lust for what is beautiful. That's just how we are made. Now that all other longings may conform to this first will there is in you, inborn, the power that counsels keep on the threshold of your ascent. This is the principle of which your merit may be judged for it garners and winnows good and evil longings. Okay? So what we can do, our choice, our free will in the matter is to resist our temptation to say no. That's what Augustine would say, right? We just say no, no, no, yes, I want her, but it's bad for me, so I will stop myself from doing so. Okay, those reasons who reach the roots of things learn of this inborn freedom, the bequest that thus they left onto the world is ethics. Okay, even if we allow necessity as source for every power that inflames in you, the power to curb that love is still your own, the power to curb that love is still your own, we can resist. We can say no, we can deny our love. This noble power. Is what Beatrice means by free will. Therefore, remember it if she should ever speak of it to you. Okay, so this is the conception of love from Virgil, okay. Does that make sense? Love can be good or it can be bad. It's you who must decide if it's bad for you, then you must resist. Okay,

Prof. Jiang  32:53  
and so what is Dante's response to this argument? Do you guys remember what's the response to this? The response is this. The response is, if you truly love someone, then you only want what's best for that person. And so if the person says to you, I will only marry you if you give me $10 million then you know that person doesn't love you, so you turn away from her and says, All I care is about is your happiness. If you're happier without me, then I will leave. But I certainly will not degrade you like by thinking that you're only worth $10 million to my eyes, you're priceless, and you only degrade yourself if you think that you're only worth $10 million it doesn't make sense. Okay? So love is not about possession, it's about respecting the person for who she is, okay? Does that make sense, right? All right, so let's continue. So now they're climbing up the mountain of purgatory. And purgatory is an isolated mountain, okay? There's a force field around it that protects it from the natural elements, but every now and then there's an earthquake. Okay, the entire mountain trembles. And the reason why is because a soul over that mountain has cleansed himself or herself of her sins. She's absolved herself of her sins, and therefore he or she now has access to heaven, and the heavens celebrate this with with a shake, okay with an earthquake. So Virgil and done are climbing and they meet a man named. Attius, a poet who has just expiated himself, okay, who's just released himself from his sins, and he's so excited because he's going to heaven, all right? And this, this is what he says. So had the will to climb before, but that will was opposed by long to do penance as once to sin instilled by divine justice. Okay, so the people in purgatory are those who have committed a sin and they need to do penance before they go to heaven. Now this is really important. Why? Because, actually, this question, if Hell is a place where people go because they've sinned, and Purgatory is a place where people go because they sin. What is the difference? Right? Okay, and what we will learn is this. The difference is the question of, will people in purgatory recognise that they have committed a sin and that they must do penance before they go to heaven, but they're willing to admit that they've committed a sin, and they're willing to do penance. And dependence could be 1000 years. It could be one year, doesn't it doesn't matter, okay, but they're willing to commit themselves to penance. Hell is a place where you go because you refuse to admit you've committed a sin. You refuse to admit you're wrong. If you refuse to admit you're wrong, you can never you can never do penance, you can never absolve yourself of your sins. And that's the difference, guys, that's the only difference. Okay, in terms of like, crime, in terms of sin, it's the same. But the difference is, those in purgatory have committed themselves to redeeming themselves. All right, so let's continue, and I and this is Thaddeus, by the way, who have lain in the suffering 500 years. He's been here 500 years, okay, and more just now have felt my free will for a better threshold. Thus you have heard the earthquake and the pious spirits throughout the mountain as they praise the Lord, and may He send them speedily upward. So if you are able to release yourself from your sin you are now, there's an earthquake, and you now have access to heaven. So did he speak to us, and just as joy, it's greatest when we quench a greater thirst. The joy he brought cannot be told in words. Status is the happiest person in the universe at this point, because he has found paradise and my wife's guide, and this is Virgil. I now can see the net impeding you, how one sips food, and why it quakes here, and what makes you all rejoice. And now may it please you to tell me who you were in your own words, may I find why you've laid here for so many centuries. Tell us who you are. Okay. Who are you? How you how you would accomplish this in that age when the worthy Titus, with help from the highest King, avenge the wounds from which the blood that Judas sold had flowed. Okay? So this is about 70, and this and Titus is the Roman general who attacked Jerusalem, sacked it and destroyed the temple, and the Christians saw this as revenge for the killing of their saviour, Jesus, at sufficient fame beyond that spirit replied, I bore the name that lasts the longest and honours most, but faith was not yet mine. So he's trying to explain who he is. So gentle was the spirit of my verse that Rome drew me, son of Tallis, to her, and they were my brow deserved a crown of Myrtle on Earth. My name is still remember Statius. I sang of Thebes and then of great Achilles I fell along the way of that lost labour. Okay, so he's an epic poet, just like Virgil that the sparks that warmed me, the seeds of my ardour were from the holy fire, the same that gave more than 1000 poets let in flame. Okay, so what inspired me is the holy fire. Who is the holy fire? We would think God, right? Nope. It is Virgil. Okay. I speak of the ENIAC. It is Virgil who is the holy fire. It is Virgil who is God. When I wrote verse, it was mother to me. It was nurse. My work routed would not weigh an ounce. I was inspired by the Ennead and Virgil to write my poetry. Virgil is the God the mother who nursed me and to have lived on earth when Virgil lived for that, I would extend by one more year, the time I owe before my exiles end. I've been in programme for 500 years, but if I had a chance to meet Virgil, I would stay one more year. That's how Virgil that's how. How much I love Virgil. That's how much, how important Virgil is to me. He doesn't know that the person sitting next to him is Virgil. Okay, these words made Virgil turn to me, and as he turned his face, his face through silent, said, Be still. Okay. He's like, Shut up, man. I don't want to know who I am. All right, so what's going on here? Well, what's really important for us to understand is that this shows us that Virgil was lying. Virgil told us in the beginning of the Divine colony, it was impossible for merit to leave limbo and ascend to paradise. He told us that you have to be baptised in order to get into heaven. Statius was not baptised right. Status is exactly like Virgil, a Roman epic poet, but status is able to ascend to heaven, but Virgil is not Does that make sense? And the reason why Statius is able to go to heaven is status. Wants to Okay. He's willing to admit there are flaws in his thinking. He's willing to admit that his understanding of the world is flawed, and he needs to undergo introspection reflection to improve himself. Virgil is not Does that make sense? All right, so let's go to the very last passage, and we'll and then we'll end. And this is, this is canto 30, and this is when Beatrice is ascending from heaven, okay, no, she's sorry. This is descending from heaven on a chariot, and it is, and she's beautiful, okay? And at this point, if you're Virgil, you might be like, Wow, this is my chance to get out of limbo and go to heaven, right? Because Beatrice, who's in heaven, asked me to do her a favour, guide, Dante fu infernal and preparatory. I've done that man now she owes me, and here's my chance to say to Beatrice, hey, could do me a favour and like, get me into heaven. That's all he has to do, right? That'll make sense. Let's see what happens. So this is

Prof. Jiang  42:36  
Beatrice descending from heaven, and Dante is enraptured. Okay? He's just completely she's completely focused on Beatrice within her presence. I had once been used to feeling trembling wonder, that's the solution, but that was long ago still, though my soul now she was veiled. Could not see her directly by way of hidden force that she could move. I felt the mighty power of old love. All right, so it's been decades since he last saw her, but he still feels for her. He's trembling, okay? He's completely enraptured by Beatrice. As soon as that deep force had struck my vision, the power that when I had not yet left my boyhood, had already transfixed me. I turn around and to my left, just as a little child afraid of in distress, will hurry to his mother anxiously. He's turning around, who does he want to talk to? Virgil? Right? He's there are butterflies in his stomach. He's excited. He's trembling. He said, Virgil. Virgil. It's Beatrice. Okay. He sees Virgil as his father. He wants to share his joy with Virgil. All right, and where is Virgil? To say to Virgil, I am left with less than one drop of my blood that does not tremble. I recognise the sons of the signs of the old flame, Virgil, it's Beatrice. I've waited decades for this moment. He wants to share this happiness with Virgil, but Virgil had deprived us of himself. Virgil, the gentlest father. Virgil, he to whom I gave myself for my salvation. Virgil has run away at this climax, at this moment when Dante is finally reunited with Beatrice, the moment that Virgil has completed his quest, Virgil has run away. Okay? He's ran he's run away. He's disappeared. No one knows. Knows where he is, and even our ancient mother. Lost was not enough to keep my cheeks. Don't wash with dew from darkening again with tears. What Donnie wants more than anything else is for Virgil to share his happiness. What he wants. More than anything else, is for Virgil to ascend to heaven like Dante will, and Virgil's disappear, and Dante knows at this point Virgil will never change. Virgil's run away because he refuses to admit he is wrong. You understand, once Virgil sees the love between Beatrice and Dante, then Virgil knows his conception of love is wrong, because never once did Dante possess Beatrice, but never once did Dante stop loving Beatrice. So love is not about possession. It's about trust. It's about faith. That's what love is. And so rather than admit he is wrong and go to heaven, by the way, Virgil is like, screw this. I'm going back to hell because I'm happy there. I'd rather burn in hell for eternity than admit I'm wrong.

Prof. Jiang  46:13  
Dante though virgins leaving you do not yet weep. Do not weep yet. You'll need your tears for yet, for what another sword must yet inflict. Beatrice says to Dante, let him go. Let him go. You can't save him. You have to save yourself. There's no point in trying to save those who don't want to be saved. There just isn't all right. And so that this is the last we will see of Virgil. And as you can understand at this point in our hearts, we've also learned to let Virgil go. And this means that slowly, from our minds, the Ennead will dissipate, will dissolve itself and and we will have a new memory called Divine Comedy come into place, which will reshape the way we see the universe. Okay. Does that make sense, guys? Is this clear? All right, any questions about this. Yeah, go ahead.

Speaker 1  47:26  
It actually goes way back. So if you still got some lecture to go, keep

Prof. Jiang  47:32  
on going. No, no, no, no, I'm finished.

Speaker 1  47:34  
Yeah, okay, I'm sorry about this, because I was like trying to answer messages at the

Prof. Jiang  47:40  
same time, yeah, no worries, no worries. Yeah, that's right.

Prof. Jiang  47:48  
Yeah, I missed that part. How did he do that? Okay, yeah, right, okay, so how did Virgil put Dido in hell? Okay, so this goes back to the Ennead, which everyone will have read. If you read the nine comedy you must have used, you will certainly have read the Ennead. So what happens in the Ennead is that Aeneas Prince of Troy, he's going to Rome to basically found the Roman Empire. Okay, that is his divine mission sent to him by the gods. But along the way, he gets shipwrecked on Carthage, and ditto, who is the queen of Carthage, welcomes him and his people, and they fall in love, and then they get married, they have sex and all that. But then the gods get angry because they didn't want anyus in Carthage. They want him in Rome. Okay? So they sent Mercury, the messenger God, to tell him, Hey, man, Aeneas, go to Rome and Aeneas because he's pious, okay, that's what he's famous for. Being pious. He just basically says, Fine, okay. And diddle, of course, gets very upset, and he warns Aeneas, if you leave, I couldn't kill myself. I love you that much. And Inez is basically like, yeah, go kill yourself. Okay, so he leaves, and she kills herself. Okay? She basically throws herself into a I can't remember, I think she just stops herself with sword and then throws herself off, off into a fire. Okay, so diddle is dead now on the way to Rome, Aeneas has to go through hell in order to get a prophecy of the founding of Rome and in hell, who does he meet? He meets ditto, and Aeneas is kind of it's awkward for him, and he's like, Hmm, I just go say hi. Okay. But the moment he tries to say hi to ditto, diddle runs away, and what's happened is. That in hell, not only she burning in hell, but she's lost the power to speak, which, for the Greeks and the Romans, was was even worse than death. You've lost the power to speak. So that's what happens in the Ennead. And donne is continuing this idea in the Divine Comedy. He's assumed that if you're if you're reading The Divine Comedy, you've already read the Ennead, which would, I mean, again, the Ennead is what you have to memorise in school, yeah. Like with her being a pagan, like, I know

Speaker 1  50:29  
she could get out of hell, I suppose, but she would have been there by default anyways, whether she told

Prof. Jiang  50:35  
herself or not, that's right. Yeah. So, so, so, yeah. So, in Virgil's cosmology, ditto has to be in hell because she's she's no pagan, and ennius is there as well. So Aeneas is actually in limbo, and ditto is in the first circle of hell. The problem, though, is that Virgil does not acknowledge Ditto. Okay, so it's like Virgil wants to block ditto from her own from his own mind. He's trying to ignore the fact that ditto is, is his creation. He feels kind of embarrassed about, about all this. Okay, does that make sense? Okay. Did you have any questions? No,

Prof. Jiang  51:40  
did those? Oh, yeah, yeah, that's a great question. Where these ideas limbo and Purgatory come from? Okay, so what's happening is that donate is dealing with an entire cosmology of Christian thought, okay, because throughout Christian history, there have been a lot of problems. One big problem is, let's just say that you're a baby, and you are born before the time of Christ, okay? And you die because you're sick, okay? Well, that makes no Well, then, according to Christian theology, then the baby would burn in hell. That's, doesn't make any sense, right? Because, because it's a baby, he or she is without sin, and he got unlucky, right? So they create this place called limbo for these special cases, okay, does that make sense? All right, so that's where we the idea of limbo from. And then purgatory is another idea that was created in order to basically as a middle ground between hell and heaven. Okay? Because there are lots of special cases where, okay, this person did some sin, and so doesn't, can't have access to heaven, but the sin doesn't qualify for Hell, right? So they created purgatory. So the genius of Dante is he's basically accessing all this cosmology, and like, there are different conflicts within this cosmology, right? And he's creating his own cosmology, all right. So before Dante, the idea of purgatory was not that common. But after Dante, Purgatory became a much more common concept in Christian theology, right? Also, what if you actually read The Divine Comedy? It's clear that Dan is drawing a lot of his ideas from narcissism. Okay, so in other words, what's happening is that even though the Catholic Church is trying to impose orthodoxy on the European population, most people are actually resisting, especially the educated elite. They're resisting creating their own theology in opposition to the Catholic Church. So they all believe in Jesus, but the interpretation of Jesus is different. Okay, so one major difference in the Divine Comedy is that it's orthodoxy that Jesus died for our sins. But when Beatrice and Dante talk about Jesus, Beatrice tells Dante, No, Jesus died to awaken us, to educate us to our own flaws, because otherwise we could not look ourselves in the mirror, okay, the death of Jesus was so shocking that it forced us to look ourselves in the mirror and to see the sin within us. So it was an act of education. It was an act of inspiration rather than an act of redemption. Okay, according to Wikipedia.

Speaker 1  55:00  
To checking this up the so the Catholic Church kind of solidified its own understanding of the preparatory in 1274 at the Council of Leo, right? So the church gets together and, like eats for 10 years or something, figure out what his act is, right? And so, yeah, 1274 they they solidified 100 understand

Speaker 2  55:26  
you mentioned earlier about about the Reformation, but the idea of purgatory wound up

Speaker 1  55:30  
becoming a really big problem for the church, because the idea was like, if you know, if you're suffering a burden in purgatory for 500 years, you could pay some money to get out of it, right? This will be something that, like Martin Luther will be very this is corruption and so on. So over the course of basically 200 years from the time this was instituted, it creates a literary mass masterpiece. But also kind of place the seeds to, that's right, yeah.

Prof. Jiang  56:04  
The The other thing that we didn't really discuss is that at this point in European history, this year, about 1300 right, as Doug says, there's a lot of reflection going on. Like, like, like, people within the Catholic church hierarchy understand that Augustine, his theories, his theology, are problematic, okay, and so what happens is that a New Theologian named Thomas Aquinas comes in, comes and his orthodoxy starts to replace that of Augustine and And Aquinas is a much more enlightened, much more open minded individual than Augustine is. Okay, they're basically dealing with two different social medias. When Augustine was around, Rome was at the height of its power. The Catholic Church was an empire, but obviously a few 100 centuries later, there was the Arabian conquest and there was the Mongolian, Mongolian conquest as well. So there was a lot of more self reflection going on, okay, and so. So if you look at the ideas of Thomas Aquinas and Dante, they align very closely. But what's important for us to understand is philosophy is not as effective as poetry. Philosophy is about ideas, and you can debate these ideas, but poetry goes into your subconscious and they become the building blocks of your psyche. Does that make sense? Because poetry is language, and as we discussed, it was very common back then. It was actually a great practice for just people to memorise poetry. They didn't remember they didn't actually know what they were memorising, but they just memorised it, and it made them much more fluent in language and much more fluid in thought. Okay, and that's that's a cultural practice that we no longer do to our detriment, basically, right.

Prof. Jiang  58:16  
Okay, so, are there any more questions before we maybe just

Unknown Speaker  58:22  
want idea that he's inventing the scientific revolution. That's right reformation as well. Do you want to pick up one of those? And, right? Okay, that coming

Prof. Jiang  58:45  
from, okay? So the key idea of the process of reformation is that you have direct access to God, right? And how to access God through the Bible, right? You need a priest to be the middleman, because, because, if there's a if there's a middleman priest, all sorts of problems are being created. Corruption is a huge issue, but also orthodoxy. And so the idea of the present reformation is that you can access God through the Bible itself, okay? And why that's why you're able to do that is because God is within you, and you're within God and there, and therefore, through self study, you're able to access truth yourself. Okay? So that's main idea of the process of reformation. Does that make sense? Okay? And then we talk about silent revolution. The main idea of the silent revolution is the institution of doubt. Right? What does that mean? It means we encourage you to ask questions. We encourage you to debate, because that's what God wants. And where do we get this idea from? Because in heaven, preachers in doubt. They are arguing all the time. It's the vine to ask questions. It's divine to doubt. It's the vine to experiment. All right. Remember, the father of the second revolution is Galileo. Where's Galileo from Florence, right? So Galileo grew up immersed in the Divine Comedy. These things aren't accidental, okay, right? All

Prof. Jiang  1:00:33  
right, does that make sense? But I will go into these topics and themes much more specifically, next semester. Okay, any more questions?

Prof. Jiang  1:00:51  
Okay, great, so I will see you guys next semester. Then.

