Prof. Jiang  0:00  
Okay, so we will do Greek theatre today. Now as a society, every society has a problem. The problem is, how do we organise the thinking of the people within our society? Okay, how do you create an identity and then, in modern society, there are three institutions that create a collective identity for society. Okay? So the first would be, what exactly? Thank you, schools, right? So public schools, you're here to learn about the history of China. You're here to learn about the politics of China, right? The idea is to make everyone think alike or have the same basic knowledge and world view. Okay, what's another institution that does this in society? Yeah? The media, right? Okay, so mass media. So when you when you turn on a TV, when you read a Chinese newspaper, it's presenting a particular worldview, and when you absorb this worldview, you become more Chinese, right? And what's the last institution that helped us form a collective identity in China?

Prof. Jiang  1:33  
Entertainment, right? Mass culture. This includes, you know, TV shows. This includes movies, okay? This includes books. Does that make sense? So through these three institutions, societies can create a natural identity, and depending on your society, you create a different world view, right? So in America, Americans would want to create an individualistic identity, whereas in China, we want to create a collectivist identity. Okay, so what I will show you today is Greek society, a famous society was doing the same thing, okay, but it was doing it through theatre. And the main function of theatre was to create an identity as an as a democratic citizen, okay, democratic citizen. Why do we have a democracy? What does it mean to live in democracy? What is your responsibility as a citizen to be in a democracy? Okay? So that's what theatre does in Athens. So let me give you some background about theatre. Theatre was the form, the basic structure of Athenian society. So there are two months of the year when everyone went to the theatre, okay, so once in winter and once in the summertime, and they were called the festival of Dionysus. Okay, Dionysus was the god, the Greek god of the theatre, of art, of music, of sex, of wine. And so the festival of Dionysus, there were religious elements to it, but it was mainly about watching theatre. And through the process of watching theatre, Athenians created a national identity that they all believed in Okay, so this happened twice a year for one month, and it was free for everyone. So it's the rich who paid for all the plays to be performed, and that's how the rich, their aristocratic families, won favour from the people. In fact, Athenians considered going to theatre the greatest birthright of being an Athenian, okay? That was the privilege and the right of being an Athenian. It was the highest honour in Athens to participate in the festival as a playwright. And every festival there'll be two there'll be two competitors, okay? And they were called the protagonist, okay, an antagonist. So today we know that protagonist means the hero of a novel, antagonist means the villain of a novel. But back then, all this meant was you were the first competitor, and then antagonist was the second competitor. Okay? And the entire point of theatre was to promote democracy in Athens, and they did that through many mechanisms. First of all, whoever won the festival was decided by. Popular vote. Okay, the entire process of theatre was democratic. So there are no professional actors in Athens, people were selected from the community to act out the play, and everyone participated in watching the play, in fact, the largest amphitheatre. These are all outdoor theatres in Athens could hold 10,000 people, okay, 10 to 15,000 people. The maximum population of Athens was 50,000 people, okay, so this is a huge community event that brought everyone together, and he loved the theatre. The three most famous playwrights in Athens at that time were ischylus, Sophocles and Europeans, okay, and these were really playwrights poets, but they were first and foremost prophets of democracy. They were teachers of democracy, who told the Athenian people, why do we have democracy? Why is democracy good, and what and how should we protect and promote our democracy? All right, so in their plays, the very heart and soul of their plays was about the promotion of democracy in Athens. And these three were the most admired of all the playwrights. Everyone at that time wanted to be a playwright because that was the highest honour in Athens, okay, so to win first place at the festival of Dionysus is like winning the Nobel Prize in Physics today. So what I will do now is go over the most famous plays so we can understand how they promoted democracy through their artwork. But are there any questions so far before I continue.

Prof. Jiang  7:11  
Yes, it's an amphitheatre. Okay, so

Prof. Jiang  7:20  
that's a great question about acoustics. We call this acoustics. So how the theatre was designed was like this, okay, you have the stage, and then the theatre was designed like this, like an oval, okay, so in other words, the sound was captured in a cavern, in a cave, so there was resonance, but obviously you were required to shout out the words slowly so everyone can hear. Okay, that's the first thing. Second thing is, these plays were so popular, everyone memorised the lines you understand, so they already knew the content of a plays, and they wanted to participate in the community aspect of the play. Does that make Does that make sense? So the two things is, the theatre was designed in a way so that sounds travelled very freely in the theatre, so everyone can hear but also everyone memoized the lines. Anyway. Okay, does that make sense? Okay, great question. All right, any more questions before I continue? All right, so let's talk about ischylus, okay? Because he was really the first of the major playwrights, and he wrote a play called orstia. And I will explain to you the plot of the orsia before I explained to you the meaning and interpretation of the play. Okay, so all these plays comes from Greek mythology, because everyone knows the mythology, and so what the playwrights did was they took material from Greek mythology and package it in a contemporary context to explore modern themes. Okay, all right. So there is the place set in a place called Argos, and during the Mycenaean Period, okay, so this is before the Bronze Age collapsed. Mycenae in Greece, Argos was the most powerful city. And Mycenaean Greece and when the king died, he left the throne to his eldest son named atrides, okay, but often what happens in these cases is the younger brother refuses to accept the authority of the elders and he rebels. Okay, so war was fought over the Argos throne, a treatise won, and then his brother comes and begs for forgiveness. And a treatise, being the king, says, You're my brother. I want to show I'm a benevolent King, so I will forgive you. And to show that I forgive you, we will. I will host for you a banquet and a feast. Okay, and so the younger brother is very happy about this, but during the feast, before the feast, what a treaty a treatise does is he kills all the sons of his younger brother and he cooks them. And doing the feast, he feeds it to his younger brother. And when his younger brother finds out about this, okay, he dies after this, but before he dies, he curses a treatise and says, curse upon you and your house, because a feast is a contract between you and the gods. Okay? When you hold a feast, you promise the gods this feast will be peaceful. And so people trust you and come and eat your food. So when you poison your food like this, you are in some of the gods. So I curse you and your entire house. Okay? And then he dies. But before he dies, his son, Aegeus, okay, Aegeus escapes, okay, so his only remaining son is agitas, and agitas is responsible now for avenging the death of his family, okay, all right, so atrides becomes king. He has two sons who inherit his throne, okay? The first is Agamemnon, who becomes king of Argos, and he is the King of kings. He is the one who will start the Trojan War and launch an invasion of Troy, okay, and his brother is Menelaus, who becomes king of Sparta. And they both marry sisters. Okay? They marry two sisters. Agamein marries panamastra and Menelaus marries Helen. Okay, this is important because, remember, Helen runs away to Troy and Menelaus tells his brother, Agamemnon gets upset, and they agree to organise this massive Greek army to invade, destroy Troy and get Helen back, okay, but when they're about to set sail for Troy, there's no wind, and Agamemnon knows the gods are not happy with them, Okay, so Agamemnon consults a fortune teller who tells him how to win the favour of the gods. He tells agamainon, you have to sacrifice your daughter Iphigenia. And at this point, agamain should be like, I'm not gonna do that. I'm not gonna sacrifice my daughter Iphigenia so that I could go to Troy. And why do I want to go to Troy in the first place? Right? Hell is that my wife? It's mendelize His wife, not my problem, right? I should just give this up, because obviously the gods don't want me to go. That's what he should do. But instead, he's like, Fine, I'll sacrifice my daughter. Okay? So he kills his daughter, Iphigenia. The wind is released from the skies, and they set sail to Troy. Okay? And we know what happens. They're there for 10 years, and they end up destroying Troy, who's really pissed now, who's really angry now, who's really angry about all this? Clytemnestra, right? The wife of Agamemnon, because their daughter has been killed for like, no reason. Okay? So Clytemnestra, while Agamemnon is away for 10 years, she plots her revenge. What she does is she finds Aegis, and they become lovers, okay? And they plot how to avenge the death of Iphigenia. So 10 years later, when Agamemnon comes back from Troy, victorious, katamstra kills him, okay, and she makes Aegis, now king of Argos. The problem is that Agamemnon has a son named Orestes. And Orestes during this time, was exiled from Argos, and now Orestes upon hearing the death of his father, he is now honour bound to kill his mother. Now obviously he doesn't want to do that. Okay, so he's struggling emotionally about what to do. So he consults Apollo, who is basically the God of justice, and Apollo tells him You are right and just to want to advance your father. So Aristides goes back to Argos, and he kills his mother, clynestra and aegisthus, and now he's king of Argos. The problem now is because he's killed his mother. Other, there are these demons called the Furies, who come up from the underworld, and they begin to haunt him. Okay, they're torturing him. And Orestes becomes so tortured he runs away from Argos, and he's trying to run away from furies, but the Furies refuse to let him go, and Orissa says to them, I killed my mother in order to avenge my father. That was the right and just thing to do. And the fairies say to him, we are old gods. We are responsible for maintaining order and structure in the universe. One thing that you cannot do is kill your parents, especially your mother. By doing so, you are breaking the order of the universe. Therefore, we will haunt you for the rest of eternity. We will not let you go. Okay? Augustine, ghost talks to Apollo, and Apollo tries to intercede on the on behalf of Orestes, and the fairies say to him, You are a young god. You are a new God. We are the old gods. We are much older than you are. We are much wiser than you are. You have no authority over us. We don't care about justice. We don't care about the laws of man. We care about the laws of the universe. And oresis has broken the laws of the universe. Okay, so now osis is in a lot of trouble, and so an act of desperation, the last thing he does is he runs to Athens, where Athena is and Athena is the goddess of wisdom. So Orestes tells Athena the goddess his story, and he begs for her help, okay? And Athena takes pity on Orestes, and she says, basically, I'm going to convene a jury, okay? Of 500 Athenian citizens,

Prof. Jiang  17:04  
and you will tell you will make your case before them. The Furious will make their case before them, and they will decide whether or not you are guilty. Okay, so both Orestes and the Furies make their case, and morally speaking, both cases are compelling, okay, right? Because, even though Clytemnestra killed Agamemnon, the fact that matter is, Agamemnon was an asshole, right? Agamemnon killed their daughter for no particular reason, and then he went off to Troy and killed a lot of people for like, no reason as well. Okay, so both cases were very strong, and so at the end of the day, 250 Athenians decided a racist was guilty. 250 decided he was innocent. Okay, so, so it's what we call a hung jury. Okay, it was divided evenly. So what then happens now is Athena comes in and says that, because you are deadlocked, I will be deciding vote. I vote in favour of Orestes. Okay, so now Orestes is free to go home and live his life in peace. Now the fairies say to her, no, no, no, no, no, no, we don't accept your laws Athena. Okay? And then Athena says to them, fine, you guys, I'll make you a deal. Okay, right now you're demons, and everyone fears and hates you, but I will now make you stand for justice, truth and righteousness, so that we, the Indian people, will worship you and admire you, okay? And the theories say, Okay, that's pretty good deal. Okay, so the theories accept this deal, and a Reese is allowed to go home. And the story ends, okay, does that make sense? So that's a story. Why? So, what's the relevance of this story? Well, for Athens, it tells them where democracy comes from, okay, right? Athenian Athena, the goddess herself, gave democracy to Athens, right? But it also tells them how, what a tremendous gift this is, because by giving the Athenian people democracy, it basically gave them the power of Gods, right? Because when you have these 500 jurors, each of them has the same power and authority of the god Athena herself, Athena can only cast one vote, right? Okay, and so what this is telling the Athenian people is the gods gave you democracy. Honour them by taking it very seriously. Okay, when you vote, do so very seriously, because when you vote. Truth in a good way, meaning you've fought very clear, clearly over your decision. Then you bring justice truth. You bring justice and truth and righteousness into the world. Okay? Does that make sense? And that's why I say issue is is a prophet of democracy, because through this play, he is telling Athenian people, where democracy come from, what's important and what they can do to ensure democracy stays in. Athens Any questions so far about this? All right, okay, let's move on to Sophocles. Sophocles, okay, so Sophocles wrote many plays. His most famous is the Oedipus trilogy. Okay, Oedipus trilogy. Now, you may have heard of the Oedipus trilogy, but I will summarise the story for you. Okay, so what happened is, in the city of Thebes, a king and his wife, they have a young son, and As is the custom at that time, they go see a fortune teller, and the fortune teller tells them, your son is going to kill you the father and marry the mother. And the king freaks out, and he's like, I don't want that. So he tells he orders his soldier to go out and kill the baby. Okay, the soldier takes the baby, and again, it's just a baby, like, like, you know, maybe a few days, a few weeks old. He goes out in the woods. He goes out into the woods, and he's supposed to kill the baby, but he's a soldier, and he feels it'd be dishonourable to kill a baby. So what he does is he just leaves the baby in the woods and runs away, thinking, maybe the wolves will come and eat the baby. Okay? Instead, a shepherd from another city comes and finds the baby, and he takes care of the baby, okay? He goes home in the city the king and queen have no child. They have no son. They have no heir. Okay, so the shepherd presents the baby to the king, and the king names him Oedipus. And Oedipus grows up to be a very strong, very noble, very handsome young man. When he is of age, he goes and talks to a fortune teller. The fortune teller tells him, I am sorry, but you are cursed. You are cursed to kill your father and marry your mother. So Oedipus freaks out and says, I don't want to do that. I don't want to kill my parents who love me. So he runs away from his city, okay? And he's going to Thebes. And on the way to Thebes, he gets in an argument with an old man and his friends. He kills all of them. Okay, this old man happens to be his real father, the king of Thebes. He goes into Thebes, and everyone's crying. And Oedipus asks what the problem is, and the citizens there tell him, Well, our king is dead, and also, there's a Sphinx, an evil demon who is haunting us. Okay, so Oedipus volunteers to challenge the Sphinx to a duel, and the Sphinx ask Oedipus a riddle. If Oedipus can get it right, the Sphinx will go away. But if Oedipus gets it wrong, then the Sphinx will eat Oedipus, okay? And the riddle is, what walks in the morning with four legs? What walks in the in the afternoon with two legs, and then what walks in the evening with three legs? And the answer is, yeah, man, okay, so it's a very famous riddle. Oedipus gets it right, and the Spinks loses and he flies away. Okay? The people of ths are so thankful. They make him king of Thebes. If you're king of thieves, you marry the queen of Thebes. Okay? So he's done this. He's married his mother and he killed his father. Okay? 20 years later, there's a plague in Thebes and Oedipus. Now the king knows that somehow he's angered the gods. So he talks to a fortune teller. The fortune teller tells him, well, the gods are angry at you because you've killed your father and you've married your mother and you've had children of your mother, okay, so all your children are products of incest, so the gods are angry at you. So what Oedipus does is he blinds himself and he exiles himself. Okay, to die somewhere else. Okay. Now, problem now is who inherits the throne. So his eldest son is supposed to inherit the throne, but he has another son named polynices. Polynices, who rebels and he fights for the throne. The two brothers kill themselves in battle. Okay, they kill themselves fighting each other. And now Creon, who is the brother to the dead queen, that the Queen has killed herself, okay? He now inherits a throne, okay? And the first thing he does is announce that the dead king will be given a state funeral. Okay, we will honour him. But polynices, who rebelled against the king, and who caused all this suffering and misery in the world, he will not be given a funeral. He will not be buried. And the reason why is Greeks believe that only by burying the dead can they find peace in the outer world. Okay, so it's a very serious thing not to bury the dead. Integrity, who is the daughter of Oedipus and the bro and the sister of polynices. She finds out about this, and she thinks this is unjust. Polynices has done a lot of bad things, but no one deserves this. Okay, so she secretly buries polynices. Creon finds out and demands integrity to be arrested. And Creon says to her, how dare you defy my laws, how dare you disrespect my orders. And integrity says to him, your laws are unjust. And Creon says, The laws are the laws. Without laws, there will be complete chaos. And then taking the response by saying, human laws

Prof. Jiang  26:53  
must conform to justice. There are these laws in the universe that are divine, unwritten and immutable, and we must respect these laws, human laws cannot override these laws of justice, okay? And this makes Creon very angry, and so he sentenced her to death for disobeying Him, okay? The problem is integrity. Is the fiance of Haman, who is Creon son. So Haman the prince comes and begs his father to relent. And Haman says, Can you please forgive integrity? And Creon thinks his son has betrayed him. Right? Your love for integrity has blighted you from seeing the truth, from doing what is right. And Haman responds and says, Father, I'm not doing this for integrity. I'm doing this for you. And the reason why is the people of Thebes fully support integrity. They think she is a hero. They think she is just and right to bear to want to bury her brother. They think you are a tyrant father. And Creon says, Should I obey the mob? Should I the king listen to the mob. And then Haman says, No, you should listen to what is right. And just Creon gets very angry and kicks Haman out. Okay? But then Creon has a change of heart, and he doesn't know if he's done the right thing, so he talks to a fortune teller, okay? And the fortune teller tells him integrity is right. In this situation, you have to save her. If you don't save her, if she dies, the gods will be very angry at you, okay? And that scares Creon. So Creon and his guards, they look for integrity, but when they find integrity, she's in a cave and she's dead. She's killed herself because she doesn't want to be executed. Okay, and weeping over the body of integrity is Haman. He's crying. He's so depressed and sad. And Creon sees his son crying, and he tries to put his hand on him and console him. The moment that Haman sees his father, he becomes so angry, he lungs at him with his sword, but he misses, and when he finds out he failed to kill his father, in his anger and in his grief, he kills himself. So both integrity and Haman are now dead, and when haman's mother finds out about this, she kills himself. She kills herself too, and now Creon is alone in the world. Okay, doesn't make sense, okay. So does this story make sense to you? All right. Now, what does the story mean? Well, remember, Athens is a democracy, and so this is a message that's very much anti King, right? Like, let's have a king because kings do stupid things. And why do kings do stupid things? Because of hubris. The problem with kings, with monarchy, with power, is people develop hubris, arrogance, right, violent, excessive arrogance, and that makes them do stupid things, like listen like, refuse to listen to what is right and good and just That's why kingship is a bad thing. That's why we Athenians have democracy and not a king. Okay, so that's the first message. The second message is, basically, the world works when the old give way to the young, okay, the old must always listen to the young. So remember that in the austere the play ends with the Furies the old gods giving way to the new gods who bring justice into the world. Okay, the Oedipus trilogy ends in tragedy because the old king refuses to give way to young people. Okay, so the other message is, society works. There is truth and justice in the world when the old give way to the young. Okay, so those are the two main messages of this play any questions so far before I move on. Oh, that's a great question. Why do people trust the fortune tellers? Because remember, everyone's religious, so the fortune tellers speak on behalf of the gods. Okay, they're called seers or prophets. Do or divine need to work. Okay? So their job, what makes them special is they're able to interpret the will of the gods, and that's why the Kings listen to them. Okay? And remember, this is for most of human history. Humans were extremely religious, people, including the Greeks. The Greeks were especially incredibly religious, okay, does that make sense? All right, okay, any more questions before I move on? All right, let's talk about eubodes. Okay, and you Bedes. You these, what? He's the youngest of these three, and he's the least he was the least prized or the least respected in Athens when he was alive, okay? And the reason why is, as you can see, the orsia and Oedipus Rex trilogy. They celebrate Athenian democracy, but eubutes, he criticised Athenian democracy, all right? So the example is in 415 BCE, and this is the height of the Peloponnesian War, okay? He put on a play called Children woman. And this play is about the aftermath of the Trojan War. So at the end of the Trojan War, all the children men are killed, right? And the custom is to enslave the Trojan woman, okay? So one character is Hecuba. And Hecuba is the queen of Troy and Priam, her husband, he's been killed. Okay, Hecuba is a tragic figure because she's seen all her sons die, and then one of her daughters has been sacrificed, killed for Achilles. Achilles died in the war, and Achilles is dead, so they sacrificed a young girl who's a princess of Troy, Hecuba daughter, in order to accompany him in the afterworld. So either so all her daughters have either been killed by the Greeks, or they've been enslaved, okay, and been forced to be the mistress or concubine of the Greek heroes like Odysseus. Okay, then you have John Mackie. And John Mackie is the wife of Hector, the prince of Troy, who died at the hands of Achilles, okay, so she saw the death of her husband, and she has a young baby, okay? And this young baby is only a few months old, but he's a boy, and the law at that time is all boys must be killed, because the Greeks fear if he goes up and he's. He's the son of Hector, right? He might want revenge. Okay, so a drama key must witness the Greeks killing her son, who's only again, only a few months old, and then, and then, Hecuba is dragged away to be a slave, to be basically a mistress, a lover of a Greek general, Odysseus, and so Hecuba must personally bury the dead child. Okay? And so it is a play that made everyone in Athens weep. What makes this play powerful is that the year before 416, BCE, and this is, again, during the height of the Palestinian war, Athens was attacking everyone, okay, including mellows, an island called melos, and when they attacked mellows, they killed all the men and enslaved all the woman. So in many ways, children won't the children woman is a direct response to what happened in mellows, okay, Euphrates is telling the Athenian people, do you see how terrible we are? We are a terrible people. Do you see all the hurt and suffering we brought onto the world because of our empire? Okay? Now, obviously the Athena people didn't like this play, and so he lost in the competition to this obscure nobody, okay, and Euclides got really angry about all this. He was very bitter about all this, so he exiled himself to Macedonia,

Prof. Jiang  36:37  
where he died. He died away from Athens and his last play. He wrote his last play called The Bacchae in Macedonia. And after he died, his friends brought this play back to Athens. This play, Bacchae, is considered his masterpiece, his best play. Okay, so again, what I will do now is I will explain to you the plot of the Bacchae, and then I would explain what the interpretation is. Okay, all right, so there's a God. There's a god named Dionysus. Another name for Dionysus is Bacchus. Okay, so the Bacchae are people who worship Dionysus, the god of theatre, of music, of festivals, of wine, of sex. Okay. Now, Dionysus, the legend is he was born in Thebes to a Theban princess, and his father was Zeus, the king of the gods, okay. Zeus likes to go around and rape women, okay? And he has many, many children, including Dionysus. But when the princess of Thebes announced that she's been impregnated by Zeus, no one believed her. Everyone laughed at her, okay? And the people of Thebes refuse to worship Dionysus. Now, Dionysus is worshipped around the world, including in India, as far as India. So Dionysus has always been bitter about all this. Okay? He's bitter about the fact that his wife, his mother, was insulted by the theme people. He's also bitter about the fact that people don't pay homage to him, okay? So he plots his revenge. What he does is he discusses disguise himself as a wanderer, okay, a stranger, and he makes the woman of Thebes insane, okay? He makes, he makes them worship him, and what they do is they run off to the mountains where they have sex, orgies. Okay? They're having like sex. They're doing all these crazy things in the worship of Dionysus, the king of thieves. His name is Pentheus. Pentheus, he hears about this, he hears, hears about all this chaos, and he decides, you know what, I'm going to get my army go in the mountains and kill everyone. Okay? Because the bad guy are too disruptive. They are amoral. Okay? And he's about to do this, but then Dionysus, the wanderer, tells him, hey, I'll make you a deal. Don't kill the bad guy. I want to take you into the mountains and together, we can watch them have sex together. Okay? We can watch their sex parties. And Pentheus says, Okay, that's interesting. Okay, so together, the two go into the mountains, and they hide behind a rock. As the Bacchae are about to worship Dionysus. Pentheus is hiding behind a rock. We can't really see that clearly, okay, but he's really excited. He really wants to see the Bacchae in action. So Dionysius says, Why don't you climb that tree and. Tree will give you a better view of all the action. Okay, so Pentheus climbs the tree and he hangs by the branch, okay? And he has a very clear view of the Bacchae, who are in a circle. Then what Dionysus does is he lowers the branch, so like Pentheus is now in a circle of the woman, and dionys commands the woman to kill Pentheus, to rip his body apart, okay, and when the woman in that circle is actually Pentheus mother, all right, okay, so pantheist dies in the mountains, the people of Thebes are now very anxious The King has disappeared. The women of Thebes are in the mountains, then pent his mother comes back, and she's running. She's really excited, okay? And she's holding the head of Pentheus, and she's shouting to people of Thebes, look how wonderful I am. Look how brave and courageous and strong I am because I'm holding a lion's head by my bare hands. With my bare hands, I killed a lion and ripped the head off his body. Here it is okay, and it takes a very long time for the people of Thebes to convince her that's not a lion's head, man, that's your son's head. Okay, so this is an extremely weird play, okay, very weird. And there are different interpretations of what this means, and I'll tell you my interpretation, right? So, a think about this image, okay, a mother holds the son's head in her hand, and she's celebrating how brave she is, right? Now, I think this is a metaphor for war and Empire. The reason why is war and Empire happens when old people send their children to die, to fight and die for their glory? Does that make sense? So this image of a mother holding the son, holding her son's head and shutting to the whole world. Look how brave I am. Look how great I am. Okay? It's really a metaphor or an image for war and Empire. Okay? Because remember, the punishment in war is really about building empire, right? Athens wants to build its empire, and it's sacrificing its young people in order to accomplish this. So the Bacchae is a direct criticism of the Athenian Empire, and it's direct criticism of the Peloponnesian War. Does that make sense? All right, so some further evidence support this interpretation is in 431 BCE, the Publican war between Spartan Athens started, and about a year afterwards, a lot of Athenian men are dead, and it is the custom at that time to honour the war dead by holding A huge state funeral. Okay, so the state Athens will pay for the burial of all its war dead. During this huge funeral, Athenians come out to watch an oration. And so Pericles, who, again, remember, we'll talk more about Pericles later on, but Pericles, he's the basically the first citizen of Athens, which basically means he's the king of Athens, okay? And he gives his funeral oration during this time. And the funeration is considered by many to be the greatest speech ever made. Okay, it is beautiful. It is extremely eloquent. It's very powerful. In the speech, he says this, Athens is the greatest place ever, and that's because we celebrate excellence. Athens is a place where anyone can come and through hard work, through talent, can achieve greatness. We are an open, tolerant, cosmopolitan people. We have a democracy where everyone can participate in a civic life, the political life of Athens. That's what makes Athens glorious. Therefore, we must protect our democracy through war. It is good that the young go out and fight for our empire, our democracy, because that's what gives meaning to their lives. These men who are dead before us, they died well. Up because they died protecting Athens and defending our democracy, and we should have all young men go and fight for us. Okay? That's a speech. That's literally what he says. So your BDS was probably in the audience, right? Because everyone was in the audience when when the speech was given, okay? And he reimagines his funeration as the mother holding the son's head and saying to the world, look how brave I am. Okay, what Pericles is really saying is, we're an empire. An empire is so good because it brings glory to the old people, and so the young must protect the glory of the old people by dying in a war.

Prof. Jiang  45:54  
Does that make sense? Okay? But if you think about it okay, even though Euphrates is criticising Athenian democracy, what he's really doing is also trying to defend Athenian democracy, because a democracy only happens when citizens are engaged in a process of argumentation, debate and self reflection, and so what your beliefs is really trying to do is put a mirror before the Athenian people, and he's saying to Athenian people, look how awful we are. We can do better. And that's what a democracy really is. It's an open and honest discussion about how we can be better. Okay, and again, these three ischylus, Sophocles and Euphrates are considered the three greatest playwrights in Athenian history, and these plays are actually still performed today. Okay, so the arstia, Oedipus Rex and the bakai are still performed in theatres around the world today. That's how amazing they were. So any questions? Do well,

Prof. Jiang  47:28  
okay, great question. Okay, so the Bacchae, how do other scholars interpret the bakai, right? Okay, so there are different interpretations, but the most common interpretation is it is a play that explores the idea of religious yield, religious devotion or religious fanaticism. Does that make sense? That's the most common interpretation. This play is really about the power of religion and faith and how it drives us into madness. Okay, that's the most common interpretation. Another interpretation is, well, Dionysus is the villain. Okay, he's not really a villain, but he's the main focus of this play, and Dionysus does a lot of bad things, right? Well, guess what? For most of his life, Euphrates was participating in the festival of Dionysus, hoping to win first place right to be the protagonist to win first place, but most of the times he lost because he kept on offending the alien people, right? So another interpretation is this play Bacca. It's a satire on the power of Dionysus and of theatre in general. Okay, it's direct criticism of the festival of Dionysus, and what, and what eubody is really saying is the festival of Dionysus, it's not about art and reflection and democracy. It's really just a wild sex party that's trying to please everyone. Okay? So, so you can also interpret this as a direct criticism of democracy itself. Democracy is just a wild sex party, right? So these are the two major interpretations that it is that the Bacchae, it's about the power and dangers of religious devotion, that fanaticism, okay? And also the play Bacchae, it's a direct attack on the idea of theatre itself and democracy, okay, but I don't see it that way. I think the most likely explanation for me is it is a direct criticism of empire. Do. Okay, and you can believe whatever you want, and that's the power of Athenian theatre. There are different ways to interpret it, okay, so even today, modern audiences are still amazed and inspired by these plays. Any more questions? Do

Prof. Jiang  50:31  
right, good question. Okay, so revenge, Okay, you're right in that all these plays have the idea of revenge, okay? And the reason why is, if you think about human motivation, what really drives us, right? What really drives us to violence? What's revenge? Okay? So revenge is the main plot device we use to drive action. It's what motivates us to do violent things. And that's why, throughout all these plays, revenge is a common theme, okay, but a very, very common, but another very common theme is the idea of hubris, right? Hubris, arrogance. And this is what the Greek try. This is what the Greek playwrights focus a lot on. What they discovered is things go awry in society, when the leaders, when they lead, when the Kings, they develop hubris. Okay, because it leads to bad judgement. But what they also discovered is hubris is just a part of human nature. Okay, if you put someone in a position of power, he or she will always stop hubris. So hubris is basically the most common theme throughout all these plays, and you're right in that revenge is also a very common theme as well. So yeah, there are these common themes, but the reason why is these playwrights, these poets, they're trying to explore what it means to be human. They're trying to decipher the essence of being human. They're trying to look into the human heart and trying to figure out what makes us human, basically, and all humans are alike. Okay, okay, any more questions?

Prof. Jiang  52:36  
Yeah, the Athenians. Okay, so the thing, the thing about Euphrates was that we today, scholars will all agree all these three. Euphrates was the most talented meaning, his use of poetry, his use of metaphors, imagery. It was the most imaginative. Okay, we also agree that he is the most shocking, okay, his ideas the way he presents things, it is the most visual and imaginative, okay, so in terms of pure talent, he's his most talented. But when he was alive, okay, he was extremely arrogant, person who believed theatre should be about awakening. People should be challenging people's sense of reality, okay? It should be about education and edification, and these people can be hated by contemporaries, okay, but after the dead, later generations respect them more. So even though children, women did not win first place, the Bacchae did win first place, and that's because, well, your British was dead, okay, and they were able to see the genius and imagination of the Bacchae much more closely, okay? Does that make sense? Okay? So ubidi basically had his, his his image, his reputation. Was rejuvenated after his death, but during his lifetime, he was, he was despised by a lot of people. People respected his genius, but they didn't like the fact that he was so arrogant and candid. Okay? And that's true for most of human history where, where you know, if you are a controversial writer, you are not respected by contemporaries, but after you're dead, people appreciate your genius, okay, and this is true for most really famous writers. Any more questions? These are great questions, by the way. Do.

Prof. Jiang  55:00  
Okay, great. So next class, we will do Socrates and Plato. Okay, do.

