Prof. Jiang  0:00  
Okay, good morning. Today, we will do genus Khan and the Mongolian conquest. Now, as you know, the Mongols have a terrible reputation for their brutality, for their atrocities. Today, I want to make the argument to you that what they did, given the circumstances, given the constraints they were under, was actually logical and understandable. Okay, so that's the argument I will make to you today. All right, so the Mongols, the Mongols, as you know, they are steppe people. The steppe are divided into the Western steppes and the eastern steppes, and they trap. They basically go from Hungary in Europe all the way to what is modern day Mongolia. And as we discussed, steppe culture is very different from agricultural culture that we find in the lavage in Anatolia, Mesopotamia and in China, in the grasslands, the economy is what we call nomadic pastoral, meaning they will raise cattle as their source of food, and they will travel wherever there is grassland. Okay, so they and because of their economy, they have developed a certain culture. They are extremely violent, their society, their culture is based around violence, and there's a lot of competition within these certain groups. So rather than think of these people as as a nation or race of people, it's better to think of them as a culture, okay, and for the longest time throughout human history, they have been divided among many different tribes throughout human history, the nomadic pastoral people of the steppes have always been in conflict with the agricultural empires. So in response, the agricultural empires China and the Persians, they have built walls and fortifications to counter their threat, okay? So as you can see, the Mongols will eventually come south and invade most of China. And historically, the response has been the Great Wall of China, okay. But also in Central Asia, the steppe people have been a threat as well, and they have built fortified cities as a response. Okay, so even though the steppe people and their agricultural empires have always been in conflict, the Mongols have had a unique reputation in Western history as the most brutal, as the most as the most violent. Okay, so the question we're looking at today is, why were the Mongols unique in their brutality? Okay, so there are lots of things that were set up with the Mongols that we now know today are not true. Okay? So, for example, back in the day, they had a reputation for cannibalism. They ate their opponents. They ate their enemies, and we know that's not true today. They also had a reputation for being devious. So for example, when they approach an enemy, they would hold the cross, okay, the cross is a symbol of Christianity, so the Christian enemies would see this and think that they are allies, okay, and only when they discovered that these are actually Mongols. But by then, it was much too late. Okay, so the Mongols had a reputation for being extremely devious. They had a reputation for wanton brutality. They would destroy entire cities and kill all the people. Previously, historians believe they kill about 65 million people today, that figure is disputed, but if that was the case, then the Mongols killed more people than any other regime in human history before the 20th century. Daniels Kahn is considered. The greatest conqueror in human history. So the statistic that surprises everyone is one out of 200 males today. They're a direct descendant of Genghis Khan. So that's our 60 million people. Okay, 60 million males in the world are direct descendants of getting us caught, right? So that is the reputation that the Mongols had for most of history. And what I want to show you today is the Mongols are not unique among the steps people okay and the way they behave. There was a strategy. There's a logic to the way they behave given the circumstances and constraints they found themselves under. Okay? So, as you know, in this class, the steppe people were the greatest conquerors in human history. Okay, so this started with the Amaya, who were based in the Ukraine area, and we know the yamnaya, who are also referred to as the proto indo Europeans, as well as the Aryans. They spread throughout most of the western world. So they went to Europe, and as we as you know, they basically replaced entire male population of Europe, and they intermarry with the local woman to create European culture. They also went south and conquered Iran and India, and then they went over to the eastern steppes as well. So it's really important for us to remember, and I know this is hard, but the Mongol people, they are culturally more similar to the yamnaya than they are to the Chinese, even though genetically, the Mongols may be more similar to the Chinese. Okay, in this class, we focus on cultural values rather than genetic affinity. Okay, so over time, what will happen to the Western steppes is it will slowly acclimatise itself to the surrounding agricultural empires, and slowly, the Western steppes will become integrated into the the agricultural into their agricultural neighbours. So the example here is Scythia. Okay, so Scythia is, slowly, it's an empire. It's a steppe Empire, but slowly, it's about to integrate itself into what is modern day Eurasia. Okay, from, from the Scythians, you will, you'll have a rise something called the median Empire, which will then give way to the Persian Empire over in the eastern steppes, okay, the steppe people come into conflict with the Han Dynasty. And the Han Dynasty, as we know from last class, is really the last ethnically Chinese dynasty, and they are intent on a policy of eradication against the steppe people. So they come in a conflict with steppe people who are now called the Xiongnu, okay? And what this conflict will do is drive these people West, okay? And this is interesting for us, because when they go west, they will splinter off into different groups. When they go all the way to Europe, they will be known as the Huns. Okay, you may know Attila the Hun Well, Attila Hun is what was the leader of these people. The Huns will drive the Western steppe people, meaning the Goths, into the Roman Empire, causing conflict with the Roman Empire. Okay? And the Goths will become the foundation of modern day Europeans. Okay? So this is the Hun Empire at its peak, when it's in conflict with the Roman Empire. The steppe people the Huns will also give rise to a bill called the gorturk Empire. Okay? And and they will sweep down, and they will become the Seljuk Turks, which will take over Mesopotamia, and then eventually you will have emerged the Ottoman Empire from these people, right? So, in other words, the Mongols are just the

Prof. Jiang  9:40  
most successful iteration of the steppe people and their conflicts with the agricultural empires. So the Mongol Empire is the second largest empire ever in human history, only the British Empire had more land. Okay, the Mongols were the largest contiguous empire, meaning, meaning it was all it was all interconnected together, all right. At its height, the Mongol Empire extended from basically what is modern day Russia, all the way to China. Okay. The the empire that will take over the Mongols centuries later is the Russian Empire. Okay, the Russian Empire will take over a lot of Mongol territory because it is so large after the death of Genghis Khan and his son ogade, the Hmong Empire will splinter into four major empires, okay, and these four major empires themselves will assimilate and integrate into the local culture. The Golden Horde will eventually give rise to the Russian Empire. The Yuan Dynasty will eventually fall and give rise to the Ming Empire. Okay, so even though they conquer a lot of territory. Ultimately, their empire is not sustainable, and later on, I will explain to you why it was not sustainable and why ultimately the Mongol Empire declined. But while it was still in place, it creates something called the Pax Mongolica. Okay, this is Latin for the Mongol peace. You've heard of the Pax Romana. We are now living in the Pax Americana. Okay, so the Mongols created something called the Pax managalaka, which is meant they believed in globalisation. They wanted their conquered nations to trade with each other, because they could clap, they could collect taxes on the trade, and they encouraged people, especially merchants, to travel across their empire and trade with each other. And during this time, a very famous Italian named Marco Polo had a chance to visit the world and his travels, especially those to China, capture the imagination of Europeans. This is really the first time that China figured into the European imagination. So this is a map of Marco polo's travels, okay? And as you can see, he basically travelled all across the Pax Mongol liquor, okay. The problem, though, is that when you integrate the world like this, you also give rise to disease. So the Black Death travelled all across the world. Okay, so we believe the Black Death originated in Central Asia, in a place we call kazukistan today, and it travelled all over the Mongol Empire. It made its way to Europe, and it devastated Europe. Okay, it killed anywhere between a third to half of the entire population of Europe. It travelled also to the former Islamic empire, and it travelled to China, but it was not as devastating. It's very important for us to understand the Black Death was devastating for Europe, but it was not that devastating for China and the Islamic empire. And the reason why is sanitation and hygiene. So in China and in the former Islamic empire, their cities were pretty well organised, pretty wealthy, pretty civilised, but in Europe, their streets were literally filled with manure. Okay? They had horses. They didn't have sanitation. People just threw shit onto the streets, and so like when you walk the streets, they were literally covered with shit. And in that sort of environment, diseases spread very rapidly. But the Black Death is important for us also, because it will give rise to the Renaissance, which we'll do next week. Okay, so about the Black Death historians believe the Renaissance could not have happened, but Black Death basically meant a reset of European society, and it allowed massive innovation in Europe. Okay? So as you can see, the Black Death was extremely devastating for Europe.

Prof. Jiang  14:45  
After the Mongols will come another great conqueror called Timmer the lane. Timmerlane, and he will be the last great conqueror from the steppes. After, after Timur Lane, the agricultural empires will develop the technology to repel the Sept. Invaders, mainly gunpowder, okay, the technology and mass armies will overwhelm the steppe people, and eventually, over time, the agricultural nations, mainly Russia, will start to colonise and conquer the steppes, right? Okay, so look, let's look at today, at Genghis Khan, who is the founder of the Mongol Empire. Genghis Khan, will you first of all, unite the warring tribes of the Mongol people. He'll turn them into a confederation, and then the Confederation will aim to conquer China, but then it will come into conflict with the Central Asian nations. And so Genghis Khan will embark on the Central Asian campaigns that are brutal. He'll wipe out entire cities. He'll he'll kill all the kill all inhabitants, and he will lay the foundation for the Mongol conquest that will follow after him, okay, and again, after the death of his son, Oga, day, the Mongols were split into four major factions, and they will attempt to continue the legacy of conquest. But what happened is, after they conquered the song empire in 1279, they will attempt to conquer Japan and Vietnam, and when they try to do so, they will be repelled. They try to conquer Japan twice, and even though the legend is that Japan was saved by the Kamikaze, right? The Great Divine Wind, I will show you that's actually not true. There's another reason why the Mongols stopped invading Japan. So in the east, they've reached the limit of their conquest. They tried to conquer India as well, but when they tried to do so, they were repelled. And historians argue about the reason why this is why this is the case. Some believe it was because of the climate of India. Some believe it was because of some because the southern of Delhi had a organised and concerned response. Some other believe it was just internal fighting, okay, when they try to reach Europe, they will try to conquer Poland and Hungary. And even though they win every single battle against the poles and Hungarians, they will ultimately turn back and and that, and that will be the limit of their conquest in the West, so the Mongolian fighting style is great when you fight in flat planes. Okay, these are horsemen with bulls, okay. So they're fast. They can cover great, great distances. But when, when they try to reach Europe, and Europe is thick forest, right? They really can't conquer that terrain. One really stunning event is when they try to conquer Egypt. Remember Egypt for the longest time, was the wealthiest part of the Western world. When they try to conquer Egypt, they run into a people called the Mamluks, who fight very similarly to the Mongols. In fact, the Mamluks are originally from the steppes as well, and for the first time, the Mongols will be defeated militarily on the battlefield. And this sort of destroys the aura of inevitability and invincibility that the Mongols had for the longest time. Okay? And this will be the extent of their conquests in the West. And after these conquests, the Mongol Empire will try to rule their respective empires, but ultimately they will fail, okay? And later on, I'll explain to you why they were doomed to fail. And the irony is, the reasons that gave rise to the Empire are also reasons why their empire ultimately collapsed. Okay, so I want to first talk about Genghis Khan, and so we don't know much about Genghis Khan. What we do know comes from a book called The Secret History of the Mongols. So it is a oral history of the life and times of Genghis Khan and his son, Oga day. Right now, the story in The Secret History, it's suspicious. And it's suspicious because it fits very well into the structure of proto indo European myth. All right, so let me show you how it's similar. Okay, in The Secret History, Genghis Khan, his mother. Other, and you know, again, they are in the Mulan grasslands. His mother is about to be wed to her husband, so she's in her carriage, and she's along her along the way to her husband's tribe, but along the way, she is ambushed and kidnapped. That's a very common thing in that culture. The way that you obtain a wife is by stealing someone else's wife, and so she's forced to marry a stranger, but the stranger, Genghis Khan's eventual father, dies when Genghis Khan is eight years old. When the father dies, the tribe abandons the mother and her young children so they're forced to fend for themselves. Eventually, the mother finds a way to find a supporting tribe, and Genghis Khan slowly finds mentors for protection. He eventually finds a mentor who becomes his best friend, and this friend's best friend's name is Jamo ka okay. And the two together are great warriors, and they conquer a lot of territory terror together. In fact, when Genghis Khan's wife is stolen by a tribe, the two will race off and get the wife back. But by this time, Genghis Khan's wife is pregnant with another man's son. Genghis Khan raised the Son as his own, and he made the son here to his empire, which will cause great difficulties when Genghis Khan dies, okay, but that just shows you the generosity of this man. Eventually, Genghis Khan will run into conflict with Jamal Kha and the two are competing for control of the Mongol world. Genghis Khan kills him to achieve his dominance, and Genghis Khan will overthrow the existing Mongolian social order, basically, all these top chieftains, all these top shamans he will kill in order to unite the Mongol people and bring about a new social order. Okay, so that's the story that we have from The Secret History, and that's very similar, by the way, to other founding myths of other people, like, for example, let's look at Rome. Okay, so remember, last semester, we discussed Virgil's in the app, okay? And it's about the founder of Rome. His name is Aeneas. Aeneas is a prince of Troy, and he has to watch the destruction of Troy. He escapes the he escapes the sacking of Troy, where everyone is killed, but he gets lost at sea, okay, eventually, he stumbles under Carthage, where he falls in love with a queen there named Ditto. But the gods the man that he leaves ditto the woman that he loves and he's married and he does, he betrays ditto, who then kills herself. Then he goes to Italy, where he has to fight a war in order to establish the Trojan people on Italy, and they will eventually give rise to the Roman people. Okay, so it's a very similar structure the story of Genghis Khan. Let's go to another story from Rome. So the founder of Rome is named Romulus, who was direct descendant of Aeneas, so two so there's a king called numitor, and his brother, amelius, usurps the throne. And once amelius usurps the throne, he puts numerous daughter into a temple and makes her a virgin, okay? But Mars, the war guard, Mars visits her and impregnates her with twins. Numerator demands the twins be killed, and the twins are left alone by the Tiber River, okay? And everyone thinks that they will drown, but they are more actually saved, and a she wolf nourishes them and a shepherd adopts them. Eventually, they discover the true heritage, and they help their grandfather, numerator, kill his brother amelius and restore the throne. Then the two go off to found their own city, which is Rome, okay, but they're going to be one king, so the two fight, and Romulus kills his twin brother Remus, all right?

Prof. Jiang  24:30  
And then Romulus becomes Rome's first king, which will eventually give rise to the greatest empire in the European world, all right. So as you can see, the structures are very similar. So let's go over very quickly, the structure and meaning of proto indo European myth. The thing I want to remember is that what mythology ultimately is it's a collective subconscious of a culture. Okay, by understanding mythology, we can understand the fundamental values that underpin this culture. So what is the structure we're looking at? Okay, the structure is this. First, the gods favour a man with a divine mission, but the man himself does not understand this divine mission. Okay, the gods have picked this man for whatever reason, this man must fulfil his divine mission, and in the process, he will suffer hardship to become as hard as a sword. Okay? Hardship makes you committed. It makes you strong and to recognise his mission. Okay? In the process, he's asking, he's asking himself, why am I being persecuted? Why am I suffering so much? And then eventually he will, he will have an epiphany. He will recognise, oh, it's because the gods have a mission for me that I must fulfil. That's why I'm that's why I'm suffering. That's why I'm being persecuted. It's to make me strong and committed, okay? And he will sacrifice his beloved to prove his commitment to his divine mission. Okay, this is really important in photo indo, European myth, the hero must always sacrifice His Beloved. So remember the story of Genghis Khan, he sacrifices, he kills his best friend, jamoka. Okay? And you think, Okay, what's a big deal? Well, in that culture, when tours are best friends. They're not just friends, okay? They're basically lovers. They have sex with each other, and that's why they're such great warriors together. It's a very common thing. So remember the Iliad, where, in the Iliad, Hector kills Patroclus, and Achilles becomes so enraged that he goes and kills Hector. Okay, so why did Achilles become so enraged? Because Patroclus was his best friend, which, at that time, everyone understood to mean Patroclus and Achilles were lovers. Achilles loved Patroclus, so when Genghis Khan killed Jamaica, he was basically killing the man he loved the most in this world. Okay? That's a very important part of proto enduring European myth. You have to show your commitment by making the ultimate sacrifice, which means killing the person you love the most. And once he does that, he will shatter the old world to build a new one. Okay, that is divine mission. The Gods not like this world. They want a flood to destroy this world in order for the world to be made anew. And this man the Messiah, He is the one who will shatter the old world. He's the world shadower, okay? He's the flood sent by the gods. All right, so that's the basic structure of proto indo, European myth. And we understand, and when we understand this now, what we can do is understand the power of the Jesus story within Christianity. Why is Christianity the most influential and popular religion in the world. It has to do with the story of Jesus. Okay? In the story of Jesus, according to the Gospel of Mark, let's look at the structure, okay? It's very similar to portal indo. European mythology. Jesus has a secret divine mission, okay? He's sent by God, or he is God who's come to redeem the world? He must suffer persecution and doubt. Okay? So everyone doubts who he is. No one knows who he is. He's laughed at, he's mocked, okay? He then is sacrificed to wake the world. He kills himself, or he is sacrificed so that everyone knows how much God loves them. And with God's sacrifice, this type of violence ends, and a new history begins. Okay, so in proto indo, European myth, what's important is that you kill your beloved. But the founding myth of Christianity is no, I kill myself to show you that violence is terrible. Okay, once God has killed himself, once God has sacrificed himself, it means that all violence now must cease. The cycle of violence, the cycle of using violence to redeem the world, to cleanse the world, must come to an end. Okay? And that's the very idea, foundational idea of Christianity. And so what Christianity is doing that's very clever, is it's seeking the collective subconscious that's embedded in every individual and implanting a new idea within the subconscious that grows and grows. Okay? It's almost like a virus, until people recognise that violence is bad. Proto indo European mythology celebrates violence, right? Christianity, police violence is the worst thing. Okay, so, so, so let's sorry this is a bit Okay, all right. Anyway, I'll just read it to Okay, so this is the ending of Mark. Okay. Then. Jesus gave a loud cry and breathed his last. Okay, so he's been sacrificed. He's died, and the curtain of the temple was torn in two from top to bottom. The temple is the temp Second Temple in Jerusalem, where Yahweh is, and at the very top of this temple is a room called the Holy of the holies, that's where God lives, and the curtain is what hides God from the world. Okay, so when Jesus dies, the curtain now is torn in half, meaning God is now released into the world, which means that everyone now has access to God. God is now on Earth. Okay. Now, when the centurion, the soldier who stood facing him, saw that in this way, he breathed his last, he said, Truly, this man was God's Son. So the first person that Jesus revealed himself to was a Roman soldier. The first person that recognised the truth of Jesus and the power of His sacrifice was a Roman soldier who's always been taught that violence is the answer to everything, and once he's converted, he recognises that violence is wrong and evil. Okay, so that's the power of this mythology. Does that make sense you guys? All right, so now I want to look at real history, okay, because this is mythology, and what I want to do now is show you that Genghis Khan fits into the pattern of a great conqueror. If you look at all the great conquerors of human history, and I'll list four right now. Okay, sorghum, adkid, Philip of Macedon, Julius Caesar and GaNS Kahn, you will see they are very, very similar. Okay, so let's look at sorghum arkad. Remember before in Mesopotamia, it was divided into the Sumerian city states that warred with each other, and these were walled cities. Because these were walled cities, they couldn't really conquer each other. Okay, Sargon of adkid figured out a way to conquer everyone and build the first empire in world history, called the Akkadian Empire. So we don't know much about him, but this is what we know. First of all, he was probably a mercenary. Okay, it's very common back then to be a mercenary, because these city states were at war with each other. Always he was a cup bearer to the king, or zabah of Kish. Kish is one of these city states in Samaria. Now, guys, cupbearer is a very important position. A cupbearer means that when you're the king and you have a feast or a festival for your people, the cupbearer is a man who stands beside you and pours you the alcohol, the wine, right? Which means this is the man you trust the most. So what's it mean for Sargon akana to be a cupbearer? Well, it probably means that they were lovers, the king and Sargon were lovers who loved each other deeply, okay, but that doesn't prevent Sargon from killing the king and taking the throne, which starts this massive war in a city state in which Sargon will eventually triumph, okay, well, so the thing about Sargon is he is really good at winning the favour of mentors, right? And ultimately, he will betray mentors in order to achieve his ambition. Well, that's also true for Philip of Macedon. So Philip of Macedon, he's a prince of Macedon, and at this time in the Greek world, Thebes was a dominant military power. Thebes defeated Macedon in a battle, and Thebes demanded hostages. So Philip was sent as a hostage to Thebes, where he is now mentored by the greatest military strategist of this time, named IPAM. My notice. Okay. And so Philip the Second is learning how to win battles. He's learning all the major military innovations of this time from the greatest general of this time. And then what he will do is he will return to Macedon, reorganise the Macedon army, and then take them to conquer Thebes, as well as the entire Greek world at the Battle of sharonia.

Prof. Jiang  34:26  
Okay. Well, this pattern is also true for Julius Caesar in this at this time was about like 50 BCE in Rome. Pompey, the great is the greatest general. He's the man that everyone admires. He has most political power. So what Julius Caesar does is he marries his daughter to Pompey the great, and this forms a political alliance between the two. Pompey the great grants him generalship of the province of Gaul, where Julius Caesar will win military glory. Okay. It basically establishes the power, prestige and fame of Julius Caesar. And this will start a civil war in which Julius Caesar will defeat his mentor, Pompey at the Battle of pharsalus. Okay, very similar pattern. Well, the same is also true for genus cod. He is mentored by two chieftains, Jamaica and Togo, and he will defeat both in order to gain leadership of the Mongol world. So it shows you how ruthless and ambitious these great Congress are. But the same time, let's remember this. Philip II had a really talented sub orient in parmenion. Parmenion was really the person in charge of the Macedon army. In fact, it was parmenion who was most responsible for Azmain, the great conquest of Persia. Okay, Julius, Julius Caesar, had a talent, sub oriented in Titus labinius, who was responsible for his victories in Gaul and then genus Khan had a talent subordinate in Super Thai, who was considered one of the greatest military strategists ever. Okay, and so what this tells us is they're able to have they're able to exercise tremendous judgement in people. They know who to trust. They know who not to trust. They know who is talented and who is not talented. They know how to win the loyalty of their subordinates. Okay, that's a very impressive skill. And then the question then is, how is it possible that they are ruthlessly ambitious at the same time they're able to delegate power in a very effective manner. And the answer is, they all believe they have a divine mission. Their goal is not to conquer the world. Their goal is to change the world for the better, as demanded by the gods. Does that make sense? That's the only way we can understand this. Each in their own way. Believe they are the Messiah sent by the gods to shadow the world so that, so that it can be built anew. Okay, and that's what drives them to kill their beloved, and that's what drives them to do what they do, okay? Um, all four ultimately, they are able to conquer the world because they develop a professional, meritocratic and innovative army. Okay. What does professional mean? It means that, look at sorghum, the great a Sargon of Akkad. At this time, there were no professional soldiers. Most people were farmers, and you only fought off season, okay? You might fight two, three months of the year. Sargent of adkid was the first to say, nope. We will have professional soldiers. Everyone else will pay taxes in order for me to pay my professional army. But these are professional soldiers. They are full time soldiers at war, okay? Meritocratic means the system before was the nobility always had a priority. The nobility was always right, and Sergeant adkid made the system more open and fair and meritocratic. So if you were talented and you were brave. You could rise within the ranks of the army regardless of your heritage and your background. Innovative means they were always adapting and learning. So sort of adkid was able to conquer the Sumerian city states, which again, were walled by adopting siege warfare, which was unheard of before, okay? And the same is true for Philip Julius Caesar and Genghis Khan, right? So again, Genghis Khan fits into a pattern here of what these great conquers look like. Does it make sense to you guys? Any questions so far. All right, continue. Okay. So now I want to discuss why the Mongols did what they did. Okay. Why do the Mongols commit so many atrocities? What was the logic or reasoning behind their brutality? All right? In order for me to do so, I'm going to introduce you to you today a new analytical model called game theory. Okay, the idea of game theory is this all human interaction can be perceived as a game in which two people, at least two people, are playing, and they're trying to defeat each other. Okay, so for example, let's just say, you know, these two guys are funny. Each other. Okay, they want to kill each other. Now, according to game theory, each person has a distinctive optimal strategy, okay, it's called optimal strategy. Optimal strategy is given the constraints of your circumstance. What is the best way for you to win? Okay, so if you're the big guy, okay, this is the big guy. He wants the game to be fair, which is like, let's just arrange to fight at a certain time and we'll fight, okay? And he wants to use this strategy because he is most likely to win. But if you're this guy, a small guy, right? Let's call him a and you're fighting B, you don't want to do that, because you're bound to lose. So what you do is you figure a time when B is most vulnerable, maybe when he's asleep or he's eating and you attack him, then, okay, you basically have to cheat in order to win. So each individual has a distinctive optimal strategy. All right. Now this sounds easy, but it's not, because often there are multiple players in the game, okay, so you have C and you have D, and when, when you have multiple players in the game, you have to think about about Alliances and Coordination. Okay, so it's possible that a and d will form an alliance to attack B, which will force b and c to form an alliance, okay, but once maybe C and B kill off D, then A and C will form alliance to kill off B, okay. So what this tells us is, not only does each person have an optimal strategy given the constraints of the game, but this optimal strategy will change according to the circumstances. All right, also, what's important for us remember is that there are always these external constraints. External constraints might be just weather or weapons, or whatever. Okay, so game theory sounds easy, but it's extremely complicated because you always have to switch perspective in order to better understand why this person is doing what he or she is doing. Okay. Does that make sense? All right, so let's look at Game Theory and apply it to the Mongols, okay, remember, the Mongols are a borderland people, and they're fighting empires. And remember with you, if you're a borderland Okay, borderland empire, you have three distinct advantages, okay, you have energy. You're open and you're opportunistic, okay, these are the three advantages that you have as a borderland, people like the Mongols, as an empire. Your three advantages are mass. You have a lot of people, you have organisation. You have death, okay? So it seems so. So again, given the strings, it is not that easy to determine who will win, okay, but we're trying to figure out the mentality of the Mongols, okay, we know the Mongols have these three strings, and they're trying to defeat the Empire, which has these three strings at the same time, we have to remember the Mongols themselves have three fundamental weaknesses that they must compensate for if they are to win. Okay, so let's go over their major constraints. The first constraint that they have is extremely low population. There are not that many of them. In fact, they're often outnumber, often 100 to one. And so that's a major constraint. When generous car was alive, at his height, he had anywhere between 100,000 100,000 to 200,000 troops. Okay. The second constraint is the idea of distance and geography. What I mean by that is the Mongols have to fight over huge territory because Central Asia, Asia is a huge land, right? And this is problematic because of supply issues. Supplies. What this means is, if you are the Mongols, the thing that you cannot ever fight is a war of attrition.

Prof. Jiang  44:29  
A war of attrition just means a long war in which in which you're trying to deplete the other person's resources. If you're the if you're the Mongols, the worst thing that can ever happen to you is if you're stuck in a war of attrition, if the siege is too long, or the war lasts for too long, okay? Because eventually you'll run out soldiers. So that's what the Mongols fear the most. Okay, so distance. The last thing this is really important is governance. Governance just means the Mongols are. Are nomadic people who do not know how to govern other people, so they don't be stuck in a situation where they're forced to govern other people. Okay? Does that make sense? And what this means is the idea of whole territory. When you conquer a new land, what you usually do is you put in place a new regime. They can't do that because they don't have the personnel for that. Okay? They often don't even have the personnel for siege warfare. But what they will do is recruit Chinese engineers, Indian engineers, in order to implement siege warfare. Okay, but bureaucrats are very hard to compensate for okay? So these are three fundamental weaknesses of the Mongol system, low population. They have to fight long distances, and therefore they have to worry about supplies, and they don't know how to govern other people, okay? And if we do this, okay, we look at what the strengths are, and we look at what their fundamental constraints are, then we can figure out what their optimal strategy is. Okay, so this is the optimal strategy for the Mongols.

Prof. Jiang  46:19  
The first is escalation dominance,

Prof. Jiang  46:27  
okay? Escalation dominance is this okay? There's a concept in political science called escalation ladder. The escalation escalation ladder. I mean, it's a very simple concept. It means like violence always escalates. So for example, I get into an argument with someone, okay. Well, what first happens is we start to argue, but then eventually this argument becomes more, much more heated. We start to push each other, okay, then I might throw a punch. He throws a punch back, then I might bite him. He might bite me back. I might pull out a knife. He might pull a gun, okay, this is called escalation ladder, okay, violence has to happen over time, okay, and this is fine, if this is fine, but the problem is, what if you're fighting multiple people at once, right? So what you want to do is show other people that you are more dominant. Okay, so if you insult me, I'll put a gun on you and I'll shoot you. Okay, that's the idea of escalation dominance. I always have the capacity to inflict more damage on you than you could ever possibly inflict on me. Okay, and that's why the Mongols did what they did. So what would often happen is the Mongols would send a trade delegation to a nation to negotiate a trade deal, and the nation usually in Central Asia, they would kill all the delegation in order to insult Genghis Khan. In response, Genghis Khan would send his army to destroy the entire city, burn down the city and kill everyone. Okay, this idea of escalation dominance, you have to prove isolation dominance if you are to to be a viable threat to everyone. Okay, so that's the first idea, escalation dominance. Second idea is idea of terror, or what we call psychological warfare. If you are badly outnumbered in warfare, then you have to have to, you have to make people afraid to fight you. Okay? If you cannot govern people, if you don't know how to properly manage people, you have to make people afraid to rebel. Okay, so the Mongols were notorious for psychological warfare. So for example, what they would do is this, they would conquer some territory and to ensure the villagers would not ever rebel, they would send one Mongol soldier into the village, okay? And this is one soldier, and there might be 1000 villagers. And then what this Mongol soldier will do is randomly kill some villagers. He'll say, Hey, you guys, come over here. Line up, and he starts killing people randomly, okay? And if the villagers ever rebel and kill him, then the Mongols will come and kill everyone in the village, all right, so that's the idea of psychological, psychological warfare. But the Mongols do this, do this, to do this to themselves as well. Okay, so the Mongols have a system where units are divided into units of 10. Okay, so 10 soldiers and then these 10 soldiers times 10 make up a unit. So what would happen is this, if ever in a battle, one soldier ran away from battle, all. Of the people in these units would be executed, okay, but if one unit ever ran away, then the next unit, 100 of them, would all be executed, okay. So this gives everyone an incentive to make sure your fellow soldier does not run away, okay, so the Mongols has psychological warfare, not just for other people, but also for themselves, not just the way the Mongols fought, and they had to fight like this, given the fact they were greatly outnumbered, and they had to win quickly against their enemies, right? Does that make sense? Okay? And the last thing, which is the most important, most important, is they had to create an aura of inevitability and invincibility. At this time, people were literally telling people, these Mongols are not human. They are demons. They have come from Tartars, and that's where we get the name Tartars. They have come from Tartars hell in order to kill everyone, okay, these are demons. Guess what? Guys, the Mongols wanted this reputation. Okay, they definitely could, in order to promote this reputation, because it gave them an aura of inevitability and invincibility. They could not be defeated. There's no point in trying to defeat them, so let's just give up. Okay? And most did. Most said, like the Mongols, were able to conquer so much terror so fast because they had this aura of inevitability and invincibility. And most people just gave up. They just paid tribute. If you didn't do so, then they would use escalation dominance and terror to kill everyone. Okay? And they would send refugees all around the world so everyone would know about the ferocity and brutality of the Mongols. Okay. Does that make sense? Guys? So in other words, I just say this, but according to game theory, evidence the Mongols did made complete sense, okay. In fact, it's their optimal strategy, okay, given the circumstances, given the constraints, what they did was completely logical and reasonable, even though it resulted in the deaths of 10s of millions of people, okay, does that make sense? All right, okay, so then, so now let's discuss why their empire collapsed. All right, so there's a fundamental weakness in the entire Mongol, a lot more strategy approach. It's a great strategy if you are trying to conquer the people when you're trying to govern them, okay, it's an issue. All right, so as we discussed, the Mongols are great warriors, like all steppe people because of their cultural values. This is a culture, okay? That emphasises three things. First is freedom. Second is egalitarianism. Okay? You the third is self reliance. So rather than think of the Mongol the army, as a Empire or organisation, it's more like a confederation. People choose to join this Confederation because of the immense rewards that can be achieved through conquest. Okay, so this is a culture that values freedom, egalitarianism and self reliance, and therefore it makes great warriors. The problem, though, is the cultures they conquer were extremely, extreme hierarchies, all right, where you have maybe the Emperor at the top, a bureaucracy, and then peasantry at the very bottom, so the vast majority were peasants. Okay? Now, I know this is hard for us to understand, but the reason why the Mongols were able to conquer these empires were almost a contempt for these empires. Does that make sense? Guys, the Mongols have actually no respect for these empires. They thought they were weak. They thought they were corrupt and decadent, okay, so the Mongols were able to conquer them. Okay, does that make sense? There's a contempt for them. The contempt is this, the monk underlying the optimal strategy of the Mongols is a concept that never existed in human history before. The concept is this, people are an infinite resource. Okay, so throughout most of the human history, people were the most valuable resource. There was not many people around. Therefore, you have to treat people nicely if you want to maximise their productivity, okay, but where were the Mongols based? They were based in East Asia. They were based in China, basically. And in China, because of the empire, people were treated like an infinite resource. You could massacre them. You could send them off in human wave attacks. It didn't matter, because they were an infinite resource. And this idea never existed before in human history and in the Western world, this concept is radically revolutionary. It was unimaginable, like you could do this. So remember Julius Caesar, even though he when he conquered Rome, he wasn't intent on masculine people. Why? Because people could be sold as slaves. That was the main way he made his fortune by selling the Gauls as slaves.

Prof. Jiang  56:19  
But if you believe that people are an infinite resource, then you don't want them as slaves. Okay? You want, you want to kill as many people as possible in order to inflict terror. Okay? So that's the issue with the Mongols. First of all, their value system not lend itself to governing a hierarchy. They didn't know how to and they didn't want to. Also much more problematic was their contempt for the local culture. Okay, if you have contempt for local culture, you're gonna have problems managing the people. So in China, during the Yuan Dynasty, the Chinese there's a class system. The Mongols were at the top, and the Chinese what the very bottom? Okay, the foreigners were sort of in between, and that just shows you the Mongol contempt for for Chinese people. And that's why, ultimately, the Chinese people rebelled against the Mongols. Right now, eventually the Mongol leadership would recognise this problem, and they would try to adopt a Chinese style bureaucracy, but a bureaucracy, and we discussed this, comes in contact with the nobility. Okay, nobility, the nobility is intent on maintaining the Mongolian culture. They did not want to assimilate, but the Emperor recognised you have to assimilate if you are to have this empire. And because they couldn't agree, the nobility and the Emperor couldn't agree, ultimately it led to the collapse of the Mongol Empire. Okay, all right, so that's the history of the Mongols. Any comments? Any questions? I know Doug is I don't have any questions yet, but do you make a comment? Because I know you've said the Mongols quite in detail, kind of detail. Okay, all right, yeah, all right. So, yeah, it's fine.

Prof. Jiang  58:34  
Okay, any questions? Guys like, I know this, there's a lot to take take in. So, you know, ask questions. Tell me where areas you are confused by. I got

Speaker 1  58:51  
a question. Okay, so, so a few lessons ago, yep, you talked about if there was a Viking university you would definitely want to go to that. Yeah, right. Because in the Viking world, you know, it's all about freedom, inequality and self reliance, right? Yeah. So the Vikings might be running harder, but the Mongol university might be, might be the Oxford one, yeah, yeah. Any sympathies?

Prof. Jiang  59:20  
One way? Yeah, that's a great question. Okay, that's a good question. Vikings versus Mongols, okay, um, okay, all right, so, um, the Vikings and the Mongols all come from a proto indo European culture. What we know about culture is that it's very fluid, and it will change over time, and it will adopt itself to the local cultures, okay? And so the Vikings were in Europe, and the Mongols are near China, okay. Yeah, and I'll just say, like, I think if I wanted to be a Viking or Mongol, I prefer to be a Viking, okay, and the reason why is the Vikings never really adopted a belief that people were an infinite resource. They couldn't because Europe was very poor, and the Vikings regardless, even though they were brutal, they started respect for their opponents. They never developed a contempt for their opponents. They're surrounded by the Byzantines, the Muslims and their Europeans, and these were great warriors, so the Vikings felt they had a lot to learn from these cultures, and in fact, ultimately, the Vikings will assimilate themselves into these cultures in different environments. Okay, so the Mongols are different, though. The Mongols are based in East Asia, and they did ultimately adopt a belief that people are infinite resource, and they had tremendous contempt for Chinese culture, okay? And that changes you as a person, when you believe that people are infinite resource and you are contentious other cultures. It also, in a way, makes you contemptuous of yourself, if that makes any sense, okay, and so ultimately, that's why the Mongols were not able to even though they had tremendous wealth, they didn't really produce cultural monuments we don't have, like the Vikings. I mean, as I mentioned, the Vikings were fundamental development of Western civilization. The Mongols were not fundamental development of any civilization. I mean, they caused a lot of havoc, and they were great conquerors, but they didn't leave a rich cultural legacy. So, and I think it has to do with to believe like people are an infinite resource. Okay, so I would much prefer to be a Viking. I would much prefer to be enslaved by Viking than a Mongol. Like, like, if I were a slave, I would rather, much rather be a slave to a Viking than a Mongol, okay, if I were a slave to a Viking, and Vikings would at least become my friend, they'd be like, Hey, tell me about your culture or many stories that you can tell us. Okay, if you're a great storyteller, then they would make you. They would treat you very, very nicely, because you're helping them learn more about your culture. Okay, the mom was having absolutely no interest in other cultures. They're interested in conquering and exploiting other people. All right, I could be wrong, right? And I'm probably making these crash generalisations, but I believe with the Vikings, there's a general curiosity about the world that comes from a general respect of other cultures. Whereas the Mongols were not curious about the world. They were intent on conquest and enslaving other people and exploiting other people, okay, they were predators. And again, that could be my prejudice, but, but based on my readings so far, that that would be my belief, but please change my mind. Sounds good. Sounds good. Okay, all right, thanks for the question. Okay, great, great question and any other

Prof. Jiang  1:03:35  
questions. Sorry, sorry. So population, okay, so the Mongol population is loosely defined, okay, do you understand it's hard to say who's Mongol and who's not Mongol, because that entire area has a similar culture, and it's very hard to figure out where the where the borders are, okay? Like, yeah, people

Prof. Jiang  1:04:08  
are okay, great question. Okay, yeah, so you're right. So the Mongols are a low population. So why would they believe that people are infinite resource? And the answer is, because they are always in contact with China. Okay, so the Mongols were always in contact with China, and as and as I mentioned, they're all the interaction happens in three ways. Okay, the Mongols are working as either mercenaries for dynasties in China, or they are trading, okay, or they're raiding and pillaging. Okay, so for centuries, there's been contact between China and the Mongols. So where did the Mongols learn the idea that people are infinite resource? Well, they learned from China, right? And why they learned from China? Because Chinese warfare was also predicated on the belief that people were an infinite resource. Does that make sense? So basically, the entire idea of warfare in China is, I organise this person's army, I throw it on my opponent, okay? And if my entire army dies, guess what? I'll just go and I'll raise another peasant army and forward on my opponent again. Okay, it's, it's, it's, it's like human wafer tax, okay, we call this human wafer tax. This was, this was pioneer in China, okay? And the Mongols just took it and used it everywhere else, right? So, if you're, if you're the Mongols, and you use and you're fighting this enemy, and if just throwing these peasant at you, and you're killing them all, but they don't, no one cares, because, because then, like, a month later, another present armour comes at you, okay, you quickly adopt the idea like people are infinite resource, right? Does that make sense? I think

Unknown Speaker  1:05:44  
they were also pretty liberal. Is not the right word. But they were pretty loose in terms of, like, who could be a Mongol or not? Yeah, it could absorb different

Speaker 1  1:05:57  
populations into the i these people in, you can take different people in.

Prof. Jiang  1:06:04  
That's right, yeah, that's right, um, yeah, the Mongols were very open society, like, like, if you had a benefit to the society, and so, for example, if you're a Chinese teacher or a Chinese scholar or a Chinese engineer, it or Chinese merchant, they would quickly assimilate you, okay, and then they would kill everyone else. Okay, so they're a pretty open society, okay, so does that make sense? Okay, great. Any more questions?

Unknown Speaker  1:06:41  
Yes, in different

Prof. Jiang  1:06:50  
cultures. Okay, great, okay, all right. So let's mythology. All right. So again, if you actually study mythology, what you recognise is there's a structure that's very similar across many different cultures, right? So if you look at Greek, if you look at Roman, Norse, Mongolian, okay, I could go on and on and on, there is a very similar structure, even though the characters might be different, okay, but, but, but, it's mythology that celebrates violence and individualism as a way to remake the world. Okay? It's about strength, individualism, violence. So why is that the case? And it's about culture, cultural values. So as as I discussed in this class, culture, cultural values are the most persistent part of who you are. Why? Because it's part of your subconscious. Okay, there's a conscious you and there's a subconscious, and ultimately, you are your subconscious, and subconscious is composed of your cultural values. Okay, this is the essence of who you are. So even though the portal indo Europeans, they were going into different environments, and they were assimilating themselves into different environments, and they look physically different, culturally, subconsciously, they shared a similar value system. And this value system will then go on to inform the way they perceive the world, their worldview, and this worldview will then benefits itself through mythology, which will eventually become literature, okay. Okay, does that make sense? So they might have changed clothes, they might have changed their hair colour, but their soul was still proto indo European, okay, and that same, the same is also true for language, and that's why, and that's why so many words repeat themselves in different languages. Okay, all right, does that make sense? Okay, great. Any more questions?

Prof. Jiang  1:09:09  
Okay, all right, okay, great. So next class, we will go back to Europe. We will do the Crusades, which will then take us to the Renaissance and the Reformation and the southern revolution. Okay, so.

