Prof. Jiang  0:00  
So good morning today. This morning, we are doing the Byzantine Empire, and I will be looking at three questions. The first question is, why do we have the Byzantine Empire? Historically, we have seen the Byzantine Empire as a continuation of the Roman Empire. We have the Byzantine Empire because Constantine the Great in 330 transferred the capital of the Roman Empire from Rome to Byzantium, which later became which he called New Rome, and which eventually was renamed to Constantinople. So why did he make that transition? Okay, that's the first question. Second question is, how did the bison Empire rise? It fell. It lasted from 330 until 1453, when the Ottoman Turks overran the capital of Constantinople. So it lasted for 1000 years. Arguably, it is the most enduring world empire in human history. So how was it so successful? That's the second question. The third and last question is, why did ultimately, ultimately decline? Why did it collapse? What were the factors that led to its eventual demise? Okay, so those are the three questions we will we will be looking at this morning, and what I want to do first, I want to present the scholarly consensus, what is generally accepted, what is generally believed, about these three questions, and then I want to present my own perspective in order to refute this colour consensus. All right, so let's start this is the Roman Empire in 117 and as you can see, it is huge. It spans across the Mediterranean. This is Spain. Over here is Anatolia, Egypt, the Levant, okay, so it is a huge world empire, and that's a problem. It's just much too big. Unlike China, it has no natural boundaries, and throughout most of its history, it was invaded by barbarians, what the Romans call barbarians, basically these Germanic Gothic tribes from the North. It also had a major adversary in the Persian Empire. At this time they were fighting against the Parthians, but later on, they would fight against what is what we call the sassinian Persian Empire. And so this was not a really sustainable Empire internally, as we discussed last class, there was a contradiction. They were an empire, but they believed themselves to be Republic. It was important for them to maintain Republican institutions like the Senate, even though it was to the detriment of the management of the Empire. What I mean by that is that throughout this time, on paper, in theory, it was Committee. It was ruled by committee. Okay, the Senate was really in command. And as we discussed in previous classes, the Senate is composed of the Roman aristocracy, the ruling houses of Rome. And when you have that, when you have committee rule by committee, when power is divided up evenly among the ruling houses of an empire, the only thing they can really agree on is to be corrupt together. And so the Senate was a huge problem because they basically monopolised wealth, and there was a lot of discontent in the provinces. There was a lot of disconnect among the people. And the Romans tried different solutions to this, but none of the solutions worked. And in and eventually we had something called the third century crisis, the crisis of the third century, which basically meant the Roman Empire was about to disintegrate. There were civil wars going on. There were these invasions in the north. There was economic collapse. There's a plague. So in the third century, there, it really seemed the Roman Empire was on the brink of complete implosion. Then military genius by name of Diocletian, he reunified the Empire, and he recognised the. We basically needed to change the system, and we needed to make radical changes in order to save the Roman Empire. Okay, as you can see, it is extremely difficult to protect Rome against the barbarian invaders over time. Eventually, the western portion of the Empire will be overrun by these barbarians, who we call the Germanics, the Goths, the Slavs, the Huns, okay, basically, these are the successors to the Yamaha people, and they come from the steppes. And so they are extremely aggressive, mobile people who eventually overrun the Roman Empire, and they will establish, basically the tribes that will eventually give us the modern states of Germany, Britain, France, okay, so basically, these are the ancestors of Western Europeans, all right, as so as you can see, these barbarians still establish their own empires. And all that we left after year above the year 500 is the Eastern Roman Empire, which is a successor to the Roman Empire, okay? And even though they can call themselves Romans, and they identify themselves as Romans, historians refer to the to the Eastern Roman Empire as the Byzantines, okay? They don't. They again, they did. They themselves. Did not call themselves the Byzantine Byzantines. It's what later historians call them. Okay, so the man who makes this transition, who basically is the founder of the Byzantine Empire, his name is Constantine, the great, and what he does that's very important is that he shifts the capital from Rome to Byzantium on the Bosphorus, and today we call this place called centre pole. It's still there, guys, if you want to visit it's called Istanbul in Turkey, and it's a beautiful city, definitely one of the most beautiful cities in the world. Now the question is, sorry, I skipped the question then is, why was this move make? And what modern historians believe is that this was a strategic decision. First of all, Rome was not easily defended, so it's very common throughout its history for it to be overrun by provincial military governor. Okay, so think of Julius Caesar, but also there were others as well who did the same thing, who were extremely successful in the provinces, and they took their military and conquered Rome. It was very easy to overrun Rome and then declare himself Emperor. So by moving into constant pole the city. The capital, is now impregnable. Okay, it is impossible to besiege. It is easily defensible, and how so I will show you later on. Okay, the other thing that's really important about this transition is Constantinople is really at the centre of the Empire. Now, Rome was too far to the west, and most of the Roman Empire's most wealthy provinces, the most important province, like Egypt, Anatolia and the Levant were actually in the east. Okay, so it's recognition the fact the centre of gravity in the empire was really in the East. And the third reason is again, throughout most of its history, Rome's main competitor were the Persian Empire to the east. And so by moving to constant pole, it allows the Emperor to most easily and most directly respond to the threat of the Persians. Okay, so this is the scholarly consensus, okay, but as I will show you later on, I disagree with this consensus. I think there was a much more important reason why Constantine made this move. Okay. Um, now the Byzantine Empire becomes the

Prof. Jiang  9:29  
birthplace of modern Christianity. Constantine, the great is the first Christian Roman Empire emperor. He converts to Christianity, but not only that, but he lays the intellectual basis for Martin Christiani for something called the Council of nikea, Nicaea. The pronunciation is different. Okay. It's properly pronounced Nakia, but most people pronounce it Nicea, okay, so the Council of Nicaea, we talked about this last semester, where the Council of. Nicaea was established to answer a theological debate in the Christian world, what is nature of Jesus? What is relationship with God? As we discussed, one more popular interpretations explanations is the idea of Arianism, where Jesus is a lesser divinity to God. The Council of Nicaea, Nakia established the idea of the Holy Trinity, which is that God Jesus and Holy Spirit are co equal. They are separate, but they are co equal. We call this the Holy Trinity. The Godhead, okay, gelatus Constantine's major contribution. After Constantine, one of his successors, Theodosius, makes Christianity the official religion of the Roman Empire. There's now a crackdown on both the idea of paganism, which used to be the religion of the Roman Empire, as well as the idea of heresy, okay, especially the idea of Arianism. He also built something called the field dossian walls, which makes kosina pole basically impenetrable. It makes it a impangible Fortress, and allows it constanto pole to stand for 1000 years. As you can see from the field, Theodosian walls. It's huge. Okay, this is just a person. You can see that there are two walls. There's a moat protecting it. So for 1000 years, these walls protected the city. There were that many soldiers from the city. You didn't actually need that many soldiers to protect against invaders. The other thing so these walls are still stand today, you can actually go get a plane, fly to Istanbul and visit these walls. Okay, they were, they were basically designed to stand for all of eternity. And that was the idea of Constantinople, the Eternal City. Um, they also had sea walls. So not only could you not attack Constantinople from by land, you couldn't even attack it by sea. One of the great inventions of Constantinople is the idea of Greek fire. Okay. The story is that they were being attacked by the Muslims. This is an eighth century when the Muslims are expanding throughout the world. They're conquering both the sassini sasinin empire as well as the Roman Empire, and they want to obviously overrun Constantinople, and ultimately, what saves the city is invention of something called Greek fire, which is basically kerosene, right? You take kerosene, you throw it at someone, and then the boat is light on fire. And the story is that this was invented by a Hellenized Jew who converted to Christianity, and he has this great idea, and then he approaches the Emperor with this invention, and the Emperor believes that he is an angel sent by God to save the city. Okay, and so it is impossible to actually launch a naval expedition against constant hope, because they'll just burn down your ships. At the height of the Byzantine Empire, it almost re establishes, reconstitutes, the entire Roman Empire. And this is the year 565, at this point, the emperor is Justinian. And at this point, the one who is leading the military of the Byzantines. His name is Belisarius, and he is considered the last great Roman general. His military genius is on par with that of Julius Caesar, Hannibal, all the great generals, and through his military conquest, but the Byzantine Empire is able to expand its influence. But as we learn in this class, once you reach a peak of empire, there are problems. Okay? So the first problem is that your city becomes overpopulated, and when your city becomes overpopulated, it becomes acceptable to the plague. Okay, so there's something called the Justinian plague, which wiped out anywhere between 50 to 60% of the entire population of Constantinople. At this point, the population of the city is about 500,000 half a million. The plague killed 300,000 people. That's a lot of people. Okay, even today, scholars debate where this plague came from. Originally, we believe it came from grain ships from Egypt, right? Because Constantinople imports all its food from Egypt, and so there are rats on these ships, and these rats spread, basically the bubonic plague. Now, historians believe that actually came. Came from the steppes, the Huns and through their invasion. Okay? So we don't know what happened. We just know. We just know it killed a lot of people, and this greatly reduced the power of the Empire. Also, when you have these military conquerors, you overextend it. Okay, so it is very difficult to maintain this empire. And the third problem is that whenever there's a military expansion the Empire, the Emperor comes in conflict with the general. So even though Justinian and Belisarius, they were great friends, the wives were great friends. They themselves had a lot of personal conflict. In fact, towards the end of his life, Belisarius was actually tried for treason, and there were many times when Belisarius was on military campaign, it was clear that Justinian was trying to sabotage him. Because obviously, if you're emperor, you're afraid that your general, your great concrete general, will eventually come back and take your throne. Okay, so because of what happened between Justin and Berlioz, basically this was the last time that the Byzantines embarked on a massive military campaign. Okay, from now on, their defensive. And also they focus on the idea of diplomacy, basically bribing their enemies not to attack them, especially the Huns, but also the Arabs, as well as the Persian Empire. Okay. This is the Hagia Sophia, the cathedral to wisdom. And this is the great monument, the great legacy of the Byzantine Empire. It's, it's absolutely beautiful. Again, guys, this is this what's amazing. It's still there. Okay, you can actually get on a plane go to Istanbul and visit this place. It's absolutely it's absolutely gorgeous. Definitely worth visiting. All right. Now, why did kutzan Paul fall? And so what happened was that, again, even though kutzan Paul itself is impenetrable, it's invincible, it's still it's an empire, and so eventually, its regions were eventually overrun by greater enemies. So for example, in about the year 1450 and this is three years before the eventual fall of the of the city, the island Empire just it's basically taken over the Byzantines, okay? And the only city left standing is Constantinople, okay? So you can see, over here are the Ottomans. Over here is the Ottomans. Okay? The Ottomans were able to conquer the city because of the invention of siege engines. Okay, these are these cannons are as big as houses, and they basically overwhelm the walls and allow the Ottomans to overrun the city. Now what's important to understand is, even though the Byzantines were Christian and the Ottomans were Muslim, and even though the Turks overran the city, the Turks were extremely respectful to the citizens of the city, because they were considered the heirs, the successors to the Roman Empire, and this was the centre of what we call the Orthodox Church. So the So, so the citizens were treated extremely well. Okay? This, again, is another picture of the siege of Constantinople. All right, let's talk, lastly, about the significance and power of the city. The city was the centre of the world for hundreds of years, both intellectually, because, again, it was the here to not just the Roman Empire, but also to Greek civilization. It was also in terms of trade, the capital of the world, because it was a meeting place of both the Aegean, which leads to the Mediterranean, as well as the Black Sea, which leads into what

Prof. Jiang  19:20  
was Russia today? Okay, so you want to go anywhere, you basically had to go through Constantinople. It was really the centre of the world. And through trade, taxing, trade, the city became extremely wealthy. Also, because it was a central world, it was very multicultural, very cosmopolitan. You had basically all major ethnicities living inside the city, Jews, Christians, Muslims were altered with extreme tolerance. They basically had their own quarters within the city. Okay, as you can see at its height, the city was extremely beautiful. Beautiful and very wealthy. It was really, for 100 years, the capital of the world, the capital of the universe. Basically, as you can see, it is almost impossible to besiege. Okay, you you can never cut it off from supplies. You can never isolate the city, because it is the meeting place of so many rivers. Okay, this is the Bosphorus. Okay, so that is the Roman Empire, okay. So this is the, again, what we know about it, and now I'm going to explain my theory to these three questions, why did Constantine make the move from Rome to Byzantium? Why did it rise? Why did it climb? Okay, but before I start with my explanation, are there any questions about what I just presented? This is all pretty basic stuff. This is stuff you can find on the internet, on Wikipedia, you can ask chatgpt, no, probably give the same answers. Okay, but are there any questions so far about concentric pole and the Boston empire? Before I present my ideas, was this clear to you guys?

Prof. Jiang  21:21  
Any questions, guys, maybe

Speaker 1  21:27  
this is something you're coming up to So, so if it is like, shoot the question down. But I remember reading like in the early years of the Roman Empire, Augustus Tiberius in culture. There was Greek and the like the Emperor Claudius would have been writing and conversing in Greek and all that kind of stuff. And so, like, I moved, I know the move to Constantinople is a couple 100 years after, but was there a certain cultural pull at the time? Were certain Roman elites feeling like they needed to be closer to, like,

Prof. Jiang  22:10  
the core of Greek culture, right? Okay, that's a great question. So culturally were the Romans at this time, Greek or Roman? And you're actually right duck in that Greek culture, it's really the hegemon, right? I mean, it's so many, so much, so superior to Roman culture. I mean, Romans really were peasants who built an empire, but the Greeks basically built Western civilization. Okay, you had Homer, you had Plato. You are Herodotus. The Romans were aware of this, and this was a conflict within Roman culture civilization for a long, long time, because they felt that even though they had conquered the world, they were about to be conquered culturally by the Greeks. So the Romans were aware of this, and they rebelled against this. And you weren't here for my lecture on the Ennead, but really, Augustus Caesar responds to the writing of the Ennead in response to the hegemony of Greek culture. So even though you're right in that most of the Roman aristocracy, they embrace Greek culture, such as like Mark Anthony, right? Mark Anthony saw himself as more Greek than Roman. There was a lot of pushback from the Empire against this, okay, so, but eventually, as we'll see, eventually, Greek culture does triumph. All right, so, so, so, let me explain how. All right. So the first question I want to look at is, why did Constantine make the move from Rome to Byzantium? Okay, so let me give you some background. So during the time of Augustus, Augustus, we today see him as the first Roman emperor, but we he don't himself. See himself as the first emperor. He just saw himself as just a citizen of Rome. Okay? He is what we call a princep, or he calls himself a princep, and this is where we get the modern English word Prince, as well as principal, high school principal, and it just means first, citizen. So again, the problem with Rome is that you had the aristocracy through the Senate, monopolise all wealth and power, and this led to a lot of contradictions and conflicts within the Roman Empire. And so the solution that Augustus proposed is make the princess, make me the CEO. Okay, this is still committee. It's still rule by committee, but I'll be the coordinator. I'll be the CEO. Okay, and the idea here was, even though this was not a great system, it did preserve the culture, okay, the history. The legacy and the traditions of the Roman people, and that was what was important to protect and preserve the culture, especially the idea of Libertas, okay, Liberty. But this system didn't really work, right? You had these civil wars, you had a lot of provincial riots, rebellions, so the solar system simply didn't work. And this led to what we call the crisis of the third century, when basically the Roman Empire was about to collapse. Okay? And again, as we said, a governor, a commander named Diocletian, he saved the one Empire by reuniting, okay? And at this point he's like, this system doesn't work. What we need to do is study the Persian Empire, because even though we don't like the Persians, their empire seems a lot more sustainable and continuous than our empire, okay? And so this started a period what we call the dominant Okay, basically, the idea of starting an imperial bureaucracy, centralising power with the Emperor through the bureaucracy. And the Romans hated this idea, okay, what emperors discovered is this cultural shift. What just found actually disgusting. Go back to the assassin of assassination of Julius Caesar, right? The Romans were extremely culturally arrogant. Why did they assassinate Julius Caesar? And the people who assassinated Julius Caesar were his best friends. In fact, we believe Marcus Brutus, who was one of the lead conspirators, was actually his biological son, right? Why? Because Julius Caesar was threatening the cultural traditions of Rome. They were afraid that Julius Caesar would become king. So what these emperors, first under Diocletian, but especially under Constantine, discovered, is it's really hard to change culture. And there's really one solution to this problem, okay? To understand this, let's, let's run a thought experiment. Okay, okay, so you understand the percentage of culture. Okay, so we're at school, and this school is known for being innovative. It's be it's known for being student centred. It focuses a lot on activities and extracurriculars, right? And that's great. I'm very supportive this, but let's just say that the school brings me in as a consultant and asked me to help improve the school, and I do. I spend months interviewing students and teachers. I feel this school is great in terms of innovation, but it needs to focus more on academics. Kids need to read more. Kids need to focus more on test scores, and then you have a perfect balance, okay, and that's my solution. Well, I'm pretty sure if I tried that, I'd be fired within a week. Okay, the reason why is I am attacking your cultural traditions. I'm attacking your identity, your sense of self. So if I want to implement my vision, I I can't force my vision on you. The thing I can really do is switch schools and build my own school. Okay, does that make sense to you guys? Okay? And this is, this is a pretty persistent thing throughout the world, okay, so that's why Constantine made the move to Byzantium. He recognised that if I'm gonna build an empire, and Rome needs an empire if it is to endure, I need to switch cultures. And the best way to switch culture is by moving your capital from Rome to Byzantium. And when he did that, the entire culture shifted. Okay, so let me very quickly explain the cultural shift in Rome. It was pagan, okay, oh, by the way, pagan is not the word that they use, okay, pagan is a word that Christians use to insult them, basically, okay, but for the sake of convenience, we'll use the word pagan. That was a religion. They were Roman, meaning that they had a distinct cultural identity. And lastly, they were Republic, meaning they were run by the Senate, basically, okay, not just Senate, but by tradition and by custom. Okay, by Constantinople, the Azmain Empire was completely different. First of all, it was Christian, and the pagan and Christian worldview are in conflict with each other. This is a major shift. Second is they were multicultural. So as Doug says, in the time of Rome, I'm talking about God says there's a major conflict, major debate, between Roman culture and Greek culture. But when they switch, switch over by centre pole, they completely embrace Greek culture. In fact, the language switched from being Roman to Greek. They spoke Greek and they embraced Greek culture. Herodotus Plato were major thinkers that the that the Bosnian Empire embraced and celebrated. And lastly, it was for me Republic, meaning that it went being run by Senate to an empire, which basically meant it was being run by a bureaucracy, okay, so Byzantine. The Byzantine Empire is a very distinct entity from the Roman Empire. Historians today argue the Bosnian Empire is continuation of the Roman Empire, but that's only a superficial and shallow understanding. Culturally, the Bosnian Empire was a radical departure from the Roman Empire or the Roman Republic, okay, and so I will explain what these differences are and the and it's important, because it's going to inform our understanding of future events in western civilization. Okay, so let me first explain the difference in worldview between the pagan and the Christian. All right, all right, pagan

Prof. Jiang  31:43  
and again, guys, I want to make a lot of generalisations, but it's a useful framework for the understanding of ancient cultures. Okay, so what's the pagan worldview? Well, in the pagan worldview, there are different layers to your understanding of the world, the forces, the supernatural forces that you interact with intimately are the gods, okay? And the gods is really a metaphorical way to understand nature, right? So in nature, there are all these natural forces that we can't really see. For example, the wind. We can't really see the wind, but also we can't really see creativity or luck. Well, in the pagan world view, these hidden, invisible forces are rendered and expressed as gods. Okay? And the gods are those that we interact with every day on an intimate basis, it was very important for us to maintain good relations with the gods by making ritual tributes to the gods. So sacrifice and rituals were very important part of the pagan worldview. Above the gods are actually even higher, invisible forces that no one has control of, okay, in which this, which includes fate, which includes luck, okay, fortune, okay, but they are, they're all but there are these invisible forces that even the gods must submit to. And then at the highest level are what are called unwritten and immutable. Immutable just means unable to change eternal laws of the universe. And think of this structure as giving the universe some order and structure. So think of gravity, right? It's an unwritten and immuno in the middle law of the universe. And what they really mean by this is the idea really of karma or justice, right? If you do good in the world, good will happen to you. If you do evil in the world, evil will happen to you. It may not happen to you, but it may happen to your children. Okay? So there is a cosmic balance to the world, and this is really the pagan worldview, right? The Christian worldview is very simple. There's you, okay, you and there's God. And the thing that matters is your personal relationship with God, that's it, guys. All right. So let's look at the three major differences between the pagan worldview and the Christian worldview, okay, and again, this is a generalised, simplified version, and we use it in order to be clear about the differences, and that there are, in fact, differences, all right, so the three major differences are this, the Christian worldview introduces into the Roman world three ideas that really didn't exist before. They are truth, evil and the individual and. Now these ideas actually existed in other traditions, like the Jewish tradition and the Persian tradition through Zoroastrianism, but they really didn't exist in the Greek and the Roman tradition. So the counterpart to truth in the pagan tradition is the idea of chaos or luck. Okay, so there's no structure to the universe. In the Christian worldview, there's a God who has designed the universe, and that is the truth. Okay, so the intention of God is the truth. The plan is the truth. Whereas in the pagan worldview, there's no design, guys, it's just complete random chaos, and you just have to do try your best in this world, okay? In the Christian worldview, is the idea of evil, which is, if you go against the intention of God, you commit sin that is evil. Now what's interesting for us is, in the pagan worldview. The opposite idea is action. In other words, in a word of chaos, you have to act. You have to do stuff. If you refuse to act, you are a slave. So think back to the Iliad. Right in the Iliad, Achilles says why he is in Troy, why he's fighting in Troy, and he says that before he came to Troy, he was told his fate. He could either die old, back at home, or he could die young in Troy, but by dying young in Troy, he'll become famous, he'll be remembered forever. And for Achilles, that's not really a choice. What he's being told is you must come to Troy and you must die, and that will win you eternal glory, okay? This idea of action also think of the Romans, okay, in their legends, they have a name named mucius. Remember, at the beginning of the Roman Republic, the Romans are besieged by the Etruscan King, and mucius is a young nobleman, only 20 years old. He decides to assassinate the king in order to free the Romans. He swims across the Tiber, and he's about to do his deed, but it's payday, and the king is with his secretary, and they look alike. They dress alike, they look alike. And mucius is hiding with his dagger, and he knows it's 5050 okay. Now for us, we'd be like, You know what? 5050 is terrible odds. So let me come back another day, or let me be more patient. But for musius, it's Fortune favours the bold. So he's like 5050. Is great. It's great odds. I'm never getting better odds. So he takes us, he takes his bag and he kills the secretary. Okay, he misses. Then he's captured by the king, and the king wants to torture him and force him to confess. And the king threatens him and says, I will burn you alive. Okay, there's a great fire beside mucius, if you do not tell me the truth. And what Moses does is he puts his hand into the fire and lets it burn in front of the king, and that scares the king. Okay, that's idea of action. You make your fortune for your action. You cannot sit and wait, you cannot deliberate, you cannot be clever. You just act. You're just brave. Okay, that's a pagan worldview. This is important for us, because the people who will feature in our course, who's very important and who follows worldview, are also the Vikings. Okay, so the Vikings share the similar worldview. It's a pagan worldview. The last thing is the idea, in the Christian worldview, it's an individual that matters. The individual's individual soul is what matters, okay. But in the pagan worldview, what matters is the community. Why are Achilles? Why is Achilles spending in Troy? Why is mucius sacrificing himself for Rome because they want to be remembered by the community? All right, so let me give you two examples of this. Let's go out to the Iliad Hector. Remember Hector. Hector in Iliad, he is the greatest Trojan warrior, and he's destroying the Greeks because Achilles refuses to fight. But then Achilles enters the battlefield, and at this point, Hector's Lieutenant tells him, Hector Achilles is back. Let's go home. Let's go hide behind the walls of Troy. We'll be fine. But. Hector says, no fortune favours the bold. The gods are with me. And so, of course, Achilles and the Greeks destroy the Trojans, and they all have to and they're all forced to run back to the walls of Troy. Every Roman enters Troy except for Hector. Hector stays outside the walls of Troy and waits for Achilles to come. He knows for a fact that Achilles will kill him. Achilles is a god. He's a great warrior, but he's not a god, and at this point, he knows he's about to be killed, and most of us would just sneak back into the walls of Troy, right? He can't do that because he's afraid of being laughed at by his lieutenant. He's afraid of shame. He has to die for his community. Okay, so that's Hector. But also think about Lucretia.

Prof. Jiang  40:57  
Lucretia, Lucretia, remember, is the woman, noble woman, who is raped by the son of Tarquinius superbus, the last king of Rome, and this is what starts the rebellion that overthrows the Roman monarchy. Lucretia is raped, and then she kills herself because she's dishonoured and Augustine. Remember Augustine in the city of God, he writes about this, okay? And from his perspective, it was a crime for Lucretia to kill herself. Why? Because we are all the creation of God, therefore we are the property of God. Therefore when we cure ourselves, when we kill ourselves, we are committing a sin against God. We are basically stealing from God. And that's why, if you commit suicide, you'll be condemned to hell forever. Okay? You'll be condemned to tempt to damnation, forever. And then oxen explains Lucretia killed herself because she's afraid of the shame that you have to endure. If she lived, she was, she was afraid that she'd be laughed at by the other woman of Rome. Okay? And that's the idea of community versus the individual. All right, okay, so this so it's a radically different worldview, the pagan versus the Christian. Let me explain some other differences. For example, the attitude towards sex, okay? Christians, because we live in a Christian world, we know that sex is bad. Sex should only happen between husband and wife, and it should only happen for the purpose of procreation. We shouldn't do it because we enjoy it. The pagans have the complete opposite attitude towards sex. Sex was to be embraced, it was to be enjoyed. It was to be celebrated. Why? Because, if it if the gods didn't mean for us to have sex, they wouldn't make it so much fun. Okay, so sex was a very important part of pagan life, as well as violence, okay? They also embraced and celebrated violence because so think about the Vikings. Think about the Romans, right? They love violence, and the Christians hated violence. So the argument is that the Christian worldview is an improvement on the pagan worldview, because the pagans, they have things like orgies, they had things like child sacrifice. They had things like genocide, okay, this is all bad, right? But remember, and this is really important, okay, these are just two different worldviews, and it's hard for us to objectively assess which one is better. We can only say that they both have their benefits and they both have their consequences. Okay? So an example is food. If we were to go to America today and look at the food that Americans eat, we'd be disgusted, right? Hamburgers, Coca Cola, french fries. But guess what? Guys, if Americans were to come to China, they would be equally disgusted by the food that Chinese eat, okay, like Mala Tong and this stuff. Okay, some of this stuff is really bad for you. So I would keep that in mind. It's easy for us to be culturally arrogant and say like we are so better than these ancients, but it's all a matter of perspective. If we were to go back in time and look at the pagan world, we'd be disgusted by the murders, by the violence, by all the sexual. Going on, okay, but at the same time, and it's really hard for us to understand. But if they were to come here during the time travel and come here and see our world, they'd be disgusted, okay? Because, like from their perspective, we behave like slaves. Achilles is out winning glory on the beaches of Troy while we are in school memorising useless facts so that we can get useless piece of paper, pieces of paper so that we can make useless pieces of money, right? Money is paper. They would not understand why we're doing this to ourselves, all right. So I will keep that in mind, like the pagan worldview is very different from the Christian worldview, and that's it, all right. And in fact, we will later in the semester discover that there are some thinkers such as Nietzsche, Frederick Nietzsche, who believe that the switch from the pagan worldview to the Christian worldview was a major setback development of civilization. Okay, all right, any questions about the difference between the pagans and Christians before I move on, any questions was this clear? All right, now, let's move on to the idea of Republic versus empire. Okay? And look, I mean, the differences are pretty stark, right? So in a republic, it's usually there's just like egalitarianism, okay, everyone's opinion does matter. And in an empire, there's a hierarchy. Okay, so that's the first major difference. Okay, in a republic, people are egalitarian, and in an empire, there's a hierarchy. So think, think about this in the push an empire, if you want to meet the Emperor, what you have to do with what you have to do was prostrate yourself first and then kiss his feet. All right, that's the idea of empire. But in the Republic, you didn't do that. In fact, even though Rome was becoming a welfare city, a major tradition in Rome was you didn't lock your doors. You didn't have guards. So a Senator who was in charge of Gaul, he was literally, he could literally put millions of people to death if he wanted to. He didn't lock his door. So you the lowliest Roman could just walk into his house and have tea with him, or coffee with him and talk about life. Okay, that was your tradition in Rome. Also. Another thing is, when Roman senators walked the streets of Rome, they always carried an umbrella, something called a to protect themselves. And the reason why is this, Roman houses were two stories, and they didn't have switch system. So if you need to go to the bathroom, you did so using a bucket on the second floor. Okay? And so what happened is, if you saw someone you didn't like walk the streets, you would actually take your bucket and throw all this shit at him, okay, that's literally what they did. So if you're a senator, you could be the most powerful man in the world, but you could still literally risk having shit thrown at you. Okay, so that's the Roman world. It was egalitarian. It was an empire. There's hierarchy. So in the egalitarian world, it means there's openness. People are open to new ideas. There's debate, okay, literally anyone could propose a new idea, whereas in the empire, it was very closed system, okay, they didn't like new ideas. So go back to the example of Greek fire, right? A guy, and it's a story, so we don't know it's true, but a guy had to go to the Emperor and get his approval before the military could adopt it. That's really inefficient. Guys. Okay? The Greeks would have just gone and done it. The Romans would have, would have let the commanders make their own decisions. It would not have happened the decision of the Senate. It would have been the decision of the military commander that was appointed by the Senate. Okay, so the Republic would be much more innovative than the Empire, because the Republic would be much more open, okay, so there'd be a lot more diversity in a republic and in an empire, things would be much more conformist. Okay, you'll be you would have a lot more creativity, a lot more diversity within a republic than within an empire, right? And. That's kind of intuitive, because you think about it, Empire has so much more people and so much more wealth and resources than a republic, but But historically, we found that republics and democracies are much more innovative and creative than empires. The reason has to do with the idea of a bureaucracy, all right, something that a democracy or a republic does not have is idea of an imperial bureaucracy. All right, they have bureaucracies, but they're not that big, and they're not Imperial. So let's talk about bureaucracy. All right, and this is a very important idea that I want you guys to remember for the rest of semester, because we will refer to this idea right now in the beginning, broccolis are good for empires because, because what they do is they Do centralization. All right, they're able to

Prof. Jiang  51:01  
centralise the Empire, unit the Empire. Basically, second thing that they do that's important is the idea of systemization. All right, basically, keep records, create laws, systemization. And last is idea of centralization, standardisation. Uniformity, okay? So getting people to speak the same language, getting people to use the metric system, getting people to use money, all right? And this creates tremendous wealth within the empire in the early years. Because, again, what you have is you have the creation of money because you have a legal system and you have a monopoly on violence. Monopoly on violence just means that these neighbours don't fight anymore, okay? Because there's a police there are these courts. They can just sue each other. There's a legal system, and people are now using money. This leads to contracts, and this leads to trade and increased economic activity. So you have peace and prosperity. People feel safe. People feel that life is predictable, so they do more, they work harder, okay? And this leads to, in the early stages of empire to tremendous prosperity, okay, but over time, what will happen is this bureaucracy will ossify, meaning the people within The bureaucracy will think of how to use bureaucracy for their own personal benefit. We can say this is corruption. Okay? So specialisation leads to corruption where just a minority people with all the power use it for their own personal benefit. They're basically parasites. The technical word we use for this is rent seeking, okay? Rent seeking. So think of landlords who charge rent to the tenants. Well, if it's a monopoly, they can charge as much as they want. There's nothing you can do about it, okay? It's what we call rent seeking. So centralization eventually leads to corruption. Systemization leads to, ultimately, stagnation, okay, there's nothing new going on. And sanitization leads to the idea of conformity or humanization, okay, where everything becomes the same, where things this, where everything is bland, right? Does that make sense? All right, okay. So why this happens is because, even though the bureaucracy is only an institution among different institutions, okay, so think about this, you have to be pure bureaucracy. But they are competing against the court system, okay, which is basically emperor, okay, and the court is usually controlled by eunuchs, okay, so these are servants of the Emperor. The bureaucracy is up against the court. It's also up against the nobility, right, the traditional power of society. It's also up against the military. It's also up against the church. Okay, so there are different institutions that can counter the bureaucracy, but over time, in terms of peace and prosperity, if things are really stable, eventually, the bureaucracy triumphs over all these other institutions. Okay? And the reason why is this first is the bureaucracy can monopolise the. Of status, okay, and mobility. So if you're just an ordinary person, well, the best way to rise from our society is through the bureaucracy. This is certainly true in China, right, where everyone wants to be a bureaucrat, because that's seen as the mechanism of achieving social status, as well as social mobility. Also bureaucracies monopolise information. It controls what information flows into the system. It controls what the Emperor sees, okay? So we say this is about censorship and secrecy,

Prof. Jiang  55:54  
and the last thing that it does is it monopolises the idea of narrative. Okay? It controls the production of culture, and we can so it does this mainly through the process of writing history. Okay, so remember, history is the creation of a cultural narrative to bind people together, and it's usually the Imperial bureaucrats who do this. In other words, what's important for us to understand is the bureaucrats have a monopoly of literacy and knowledge. They control the schools. They control the media. They control history writing. They control how you think and write. So even though these are there are competing institutions, the bureaucracy, by controlling this mental reality, that's culture. It controls the way, like these other institutions behave, okay? So the example I want to use is the idea of the Godhead. All right, the Godhead. So my argument to you is the Godhead. It's really a bureaucratic invention. You right? Because, remember, during the concept of Nicaea, Nikia, there's a debate as to the nature of Jesus. There are these Aryans who believe that Jesus was a lesser divinity. Then there are people call who believed in Modalism, who just believed the Holy Spirit, Jesus and God were were different forms of the same entity. Then you have partialism, which is say that there are part of the same entity, okay? And these three different explanations make sense. Make they make intuitive sense, the idea of the Godhead, where God Jesus and the Holy Spirit are co equal, separate, but the same thing makes no sense. And the reason why they would do this is is to create a sense of mystery, right? And distance and secrecy, and that, my friends, is the definition of a bureaucracy, right? I'm not sure if you dealt bureaucracies I have, they suck, they dehumanise you. So think of I'll just use a silly example, right? So in America, there's something called a census, and on the census, you have to write down what racial group you belong to, and the racial group, racial group I belong to, if I were American, is Asian American, right? Guess what? Guess who else belongs in that group? Indian people, Vietnamese people, Japanese people, Korean people. That makes no sense. We know that in in Asia, the Indian culture is vastly different from the Japanese culture, which is vastly different from the Korean culture and the Chinese culture and the Vietnamese culture. Okay? These are different people with their own belief systems, but in a bureaucracy, it just categorises everyone together, almost randomly or indifferently, okay? And that's why I would make the argument that ultimately, multicultural societies are not as creative as as tribal societies. Okay? Tribal versus multicultural? Think about the multicultural societies that are around us today. Okay? Singapore is a multicultural society. Canada is. A multicultural society, they're not very creative guys. They're very bland, they're very conformist. They're very bureaucratic, okay? Very tribal societies like the Greeks. The Greeks were extremely tribal. They were extremely chauvinistic. They were extremely creative, right? As were, as are the Europeans, okay, as are the Vikings. And the reason why is tribalism is energetic. It makes you passionate. It makes you think deeply about the world, whereas in a multicultural society, people have to spend their energies getting along with each other, it's important not to be offensive, okay? And so it's because of these three reasons, the certain cultural construct of the Byzantine Empire, it was Christian. It was multicultural. The word we can also use, we can also use, is cosmopolitan, okay? Also, it was bureaucratic. The Bison teams were not a very creative people, okay, even though they had access to every culture in the world, even though they had access to the classics, like Plato, Homer, Herodotus, as well as Virgil, they were not that creative. In fact, if you had a genius like Homer or Dante living in the Byzantine Empire, well, he would just become a bureaucrat. We would never know the genius of Homer and Dante. Homer and Dante could only arise in tribal societies. Okay, so that, yeah, so does that make sense you guys? And again, this is just an introduction to the conflict between these political systems, Empire versus Republic, bureaucracy versus Yeah, right. We will continue these themes and these topics as we move on throughout Western history. But I first want to introduce these ideas to you. It's really important that you understand the differences between paganism and Christianity, because we referring to this conflict, this division later on in the semester as well. Any questions about this, please feel free to argue. Okay,

Prof. Jiang  1:02:48  
please feel free to ask questions to argue, because when you do that, it helps me improve my own thinking. Right? Any comments, any feedback? Okay, so, um, I want to, I want to give you some guys some time to think about questions. But before I do that, I want to, I want to look ahead over the next couple weeks and tell you what we doing. Okay, so we did the Roman Empire, then we did the Byzantines. So as I explained to you, the Roman Empire, Western Roman Empire, will collapse in the year 476, when the last emperor Romans, Augustus is the post, okay, but when he is the post, people don't understand the Roman Empire has come to an end, okay? Because the people who are still in charge think the Roman Empire is continuing, but now we have a long period of civil wars throughout Europe, all right? And these civil wars will eventually lead to something called the Holy Roman Empire, which is something that the which is what Charlemagne or the Franks will create, and this will lead interesting for us to the to the rise of the Vikings. Okay, the Vikings are important because they will go on and basically influence British culture as well as Russian culture. All right, so Russia comes from the idea of the rules. Okay? The rules are basically just Vikings. Over here we will begin. We will see the beginning of the Abbasid Caliphate, which is really the golden age of the Muslims, but eventually they'll be conquered by the Mongols, all right, and the conquest of the Mongols will eventually take us into the Renaissance. Dante, you. It, and this will mark a new beginning in world history. Okay, so I just want to explain to you what we what we doing. We will definitely have to do the Holy Roman Empire. That's number one. Then this will lead us to the Vikings number two. Then Then we'll talk about the Abbasid Caliphate. Number three, and then we'll talk about the Mongols, and then the Renaissance. Okay, so this is what we're doing over next two to three weeks. All right, we'll be going very fast throughout. We'll be going very fast this semester. Okay, so just let you know. All right. You.

