Prof. Jiang  0:00  
Okay, so we start Rome today, and we will spend the next four classes on the rise of the Roman Republic and then the rise of the Roman Empire. So Rome traditionally, we believe Rome was founded in the year 753, BCE, but we don't know. Okay, that's just what tradition says. That's what the Romans believe. But we actually don't know. Okay, so around this time Rome, it's just like a small, insignificant kingdom in the middle of Italy. Okay, it's it was started on a Tiber. This is Rome, and it's part of Italy called a Latin area, okay, so this, these people are known as the Latins. Now, at this time and over the next centuries, Rome would be a small, poor kingdom, always at war with its neighbours, primarily the sabins over here, and then you have other tribes as well. At this time, the dominant civilization is what we call the attritions. And the attritions are the most advanced civilization in Italy during this time, and it is very similar to Greece in that there are different city states, and they trade with each other, and because they are by the sea, they are able to access Cultures and Ideas and goods from all around the world, okay, then across the Mediterranean, you have a place called Carthage. Here is Italy, Sicily, okay, an island called Sicily. Sicily is important because it's basically the main island of the Mediterranean. So you want to control the Mediterranean Sea and the trade, you have to control Sicily. All right, so across the sea is Carthage, and Carthage is from it's a colony of Phoenicia, which is in the Levant, okay, and over next few 100 years, Carthage would become the dominant economic power of the Mediterranean, because they're very good at trade and they're very good at sailing. Okay, so they'll travel and sell all around the world and found new colonies, and slowly, they'll build up their own little Empire across the Mediterranean, and they are, for the longest time, the wealthiest city in Europe, basically, okay. And of course, over here are the Greeks, right, and we spend a lot of time discussing the Greeks. So around this time, about 500 BCE, if you look at these three major civilizations, right, or, sorry, there's actually four, right, the etsians, the Greeks, the Carthaginians, and then you have these Romans. No one could expect or predict that the Romans would become the great empire, that it did become, right? So what we will look at the first class is, how did Rome become so powerful? And the answer, the easy answer, is, it's good at war. It's really good at war. And then the question then is, well, why is it good at war? Why is it better than the Greeks or the Carthaginians? And the answer is because. It's not because the Romans are not afraid to die, and because the Romans have a different conception of citizenship than the Greeks. Okay, remember, the Greeks were extremely jealous of sinnership. It was very hard to become an Athenian. Was very hard to become a Spartan you basically, you basically have to be born into the polis. Same thing with the Carthaginians. They were much they were not as strict as the Greeks, but they were pretty inflexible as well. They're very proud of being, of being a citizen Rome, because it was the poorest and smallest, it had no choice if you wanted to immigrate to Rome, they welcome you as a citizen, and as such, they could, throughout its history, draw on The vast manpower pool in their surrounding areas, okay, and as such, with their almost unlimited manpower resources, they could eventually overwhelm the Greeks and the Carthaginians become the dominant power in the Mediterranean by about 200 BC. You. That's the easy answer, and that's what most historians and most scholars believe. But I want to be I want to be more precise, okay, I want to show you that ultimately, it's the value system, or what is known as the character of these different civilizations, that ultimately, that ultimately determine their fate and future. Okay, does that make sense? All right, so. So about 500 BCE, Rome becomes a republic, and at this time, the Etruscan culture is dominating Rome. In fact, for three out of Rome's seven kings previously were attrition. Okay, so culturally and traditionally speaking, the attritions have this huge impact on Rome. But because Rome is very good at war, it's slowly able to expand and conquer the etrischins and basically control all of Italy, okay? And because the Romans are expansionist by nature, they are, they are a war like people. They are basically a war machine. They all they now want to control Sicily and the coast, okay, and this brings them into conflict with the Greeks, because, remember the Greeks, when they build colonies, they build it either on islands or near the coast, because that's what allows them to trade and also connect with the Greek diaspora around the Mediterranean And the Aegean. And in about 280 the Greeks in southern Italy, they call for help, and remember at this time, the Greek world is dominant throughout the world. Okay, so Alexander conquered most of the world, and his generals now control most of the territory. And one of the successors, Alexander. His name is Pyrrhus, okay, he decides this is an opportunity for him to build his own empire. So he responds to the Greeks who call for help against Rome. Okay, so Rome is threatening the Greeks in southern Italy, the Greeks are asking for help from the compatriots. Pyrrhus comes with an army to help his compatriots. And remember, at this time, the Greeks have the best military in the world because of the hob like phallics, and Pyrrhus is destroying the Romans. Battle after battle, Pyrrhus is destroying and decimating the Romans. Eventually, Pyrrhus says this, wow, I'm winning so many wars. I'm winning so many battles. And if I continue to win battles, I will be completely out of man. I want no more soldiers left, okay, and this, this is what the phrase, this is where the phrase Pyrrhic victory comes from, right? You can win, but the cost of victory are so high, you might as well have lost, all right? And so what this means is, even though the Romans were militarily inferior to the Greeks, the Romans weren't afraid to die, and they inflicted so many casualties on the Greeks that the Greeks eventually had to withdraw. Okay, and this will start many centuries of war between the Romans and the Greeks. Remember, at this time in the beginning, the Greeks are wealthier, more numerous and more military dominant than the Romans. But eventually, because of the Roman way of war, Rome will eventually conquer the Greeks. Okay, so that's the Greeks. Eventually, the Romans want Sicily, and this brings them, brings them into direct conflict with Carthage, and this starts what is called the First Punic War. Now there's a problem. Carthage is a naval power. Rome is a land power. Rome has no navy so what Rome does is slowly, over time, it builds its own navy, and at first it sucks. They lose a lot of ships, and so the Romans build more ships, and they get slaughtered by the Carthaginians at sea. So they build more ships and more ships and more ships. Eventually they overwhelm the Carthaginians. And so after 20 years of war in what is called the First Punic War, Rome becomes a dominant naval power in the Mediterranean coverage becomes second. So.

Prof. Jiang  10:00  
Yeah, that's something strange happens, okay? Carthage, it is a trading power, is a maritime power, but And while it's able to dominate its neighbours, okay, it establishes an empire in Northern Africa and in Spain. It loses a lot of wars against the Greeks and the Romans, who are just better warriors. Okay, but then the Carthaginians produce a man named Hannibal harba, Hannibal Barca. And Hannibal Barca is considered by many military historians to be the greatest general who ever lived as a military strategist. Hannibal had no competitor, okay? And Hannibal Barca. He hates Rome with a passion. He understands this. He understands that Rome is fundamentally an expansionist military power. Rome will not stop until it has conquered the world. So even though technically, Carthage and Rome are at peace, eventually Rome will come for Carthage. So it is better to take a fight to Rome first than to wait for Rome to come to you. Okay, now Carthage at this time, it is basically a republic like Rome, and it's run by people call by something called council of elders. And these are the wealthiest citizens in Carthage. And there's elements of democracy and arlok are as well, but it's primarily Republic, okay? It's run by these people. And these are merchants. These are wealthy people, war is bad for business. Okay? So they were not supportive of Hannibal in his desire for war against Rome. So Hannibal did two Hannibal did two things. Okay, the first thing is, he was in charge of civil mines in Spain, and what he did was he conquered a lot more a lot of Spanish territory for Carthage and and so he was able to amass more wealth. He took this wealth and he used it to basically bribe the kinds of elders to leave him alone Okay, and to support his military adventures in Spain. And again, these are business people. If it's profitable, they will support you. And then what Hannibal did was he did something that thought that was unimaginable before he took his army and he crossed the Alps. Okay, he crossed the Alps. Sorry, the Alps are here into Italy. He is now at Rome's doorstep and again, before hunwell did this, it was fought. It was found impossible to cross the Alps, especially in winter, with an army, okay, but Hanlon did that. He lost a lot of men and elephants, war elephants, in his crossing, but he was able to cross, and when he crossed, he was able to summon a lot of allies to his side. Okay, because Rome was at war with everyone in Italy and with the gulfs to the north of Italy and France. Okay, so Rome. Rome had a lot of enemies, and so Hannibal was able to replenish his forces once he landed in Italy. It was also very charismatic speaker, a great general, okay, Rome heard about this, and at first, Romans were shocked, but they weren't scared. Rome is a war machine, okay? So they decide to send an army against Hannibal, and army after army fell against Hannibal, Hannibal was able to defeat Roman soldiers and armies using superior military tactics and strategies. Okay? Then the Romans decide, You know what, here's what we're gonna do. We'll take two years off, and we're going to build the world's largest army, okay, 80,000 men. And at this time, Hannibal had about 40,000 men. And then we'll take these 80,000 soldiers, and we'll just throw at Hannibal and crush Hannibal and the war will be over, okay? And that's the strategy. That's this Roman way. The Romans are not creative. They are just brutal, bold and direct, okay? That's just their way of war. And so. Hell. And so Hannibal meets his 80,000 soldier army at something called at a place called canine, and they fight something called the Battle of canine in 216, BCE, and this is the most famous battle in human history. Okay, remember, the Romans outnumber Hannibal two to one, and what Hannibal does is he decides on a place to face the Romans, okay? And in this place, it's a small valley, and so even though the Romans are numerically superior because it's the value is small, they're forced to march in a straight line, as opposed in a wide line. Okay? You have, if you have more numbers, you want to march in a wide line, but because of the geography, they're forced to march in a straight, long line. Okay? So they're marching this way. Hannibal is uphill. Where his army, and he does something strange. He organises his army, not in a straight line, but in a concave line. Okay, like this concave. And the Romans look at this, and they laugh, because they never seen anything like this before, and they think it's a it's a sign of weakness. It means the military under Hannibal, it's undisciplined. They're just amateurs. This will be over in an hour. Okay, so the Romans are marching confidently against Hannibal. They're attacking. On the wings of both armies are the horsemen the cavalry. Okay, so what happens as the Romans march against Hannibal is Hannibal sends his cavalry against the Roman cavalry, and they overwhelm the Roman cavalry. Okay? And now they turning back in to attack the flank or the back. Meanwhile, the Roman attack is so powerful, the search is so strong, that the concave of Han's army turns upside down. Okay, it turns upside down when it does so, it traps the Roman army in a circle. Okay. Do you see this? Okay, now they are inside a circle, and the army is coming around and attacking from the back. Okay. Militarily, we call this the double envelopment strategy, double envelopment strategy. And so the Romans are circled completely. And what follows is the greatest massacre in history, militarily until World War One, the army of 80,000 that the Romans sent, lost almost 70,000 men. 70,000 men died that day, and again, no military will lose so much men, until World War One, when they had much larger armies, like millions of people, and when they have, like, machine guns, all right, so this is like the greatest military disaster in human history up to this point. The disaster is so great that right now, Rome has lost 20% okay, 20% of its adult male population. To put that in context, in World War One, the Germans lost anywhere between 10 to 15% of their adult male population before they were forced to surrender to the Allies. Okay, so Rome has lost 20% it's lost a third of the Senate. The Senate is the highest governing body of Rome, so a third of their leadership is dead. At the same time, Hannibal is able to convince the Greeks to start a second front against the Romans. Okay, so at this point, the war is basically over, and Hannibal sends envoys to Rome and says, Listen, the war is over. I'm willing to negotiate a peace settlement. Do I am willing to negotiate peace terms. And then something strange happens, and this is unique in human history, okay, the Roman Senate, they come together and they discuss the situation. It's bleak. It's hopeless.

Prof. Jiang  19:58  
You. Azmain, but they're Romans. Romans not surrender. So the senator told Hannibal, we will continue the war. We will raise another army. If you want to come, attack us. Come. We will be ready for you. And this is completely unexpected. Okay, Hannibal does not know what to do, and this war continues. And this, again, is 216 this war continues for another 15 years, and then 15 years later, the Romans have won. They destroyed the Carthaginian presence in Spain, and they've conquered and they've Lenin and Africa and forced Carthage to surrender. All right, okay, so this is a mystery. Why did the Romans not surrender. And how were the Romans able to defeat not just the Carthaginians, but also the Greeks, and also, like everyone else, okay? Because at that time, Hannibal basically unit the entire world against Rome, against Rome, and Rome, in the end, even though it was very costly, right? They did win. So that's a mystery. So first thing we

Prof. Jiang  21:31  
need to understand is traditional military doctrine about who wins wars. It's basically wrong. Traditionally, we understand the military about three things, okay, manpower, how many soldiers do you have? Technology, how good are your weapons and resources? How wealthy are you? Okay, traditionally, we've understood war making. Like, if you're good at war, you will have these three things, okay, lots of soldiers, lots of technology and lots of money. And if you analyse it this way, then Rome should be no match against Carthage, right? Carthage is a lot wealthier. It has more technology. That's the greatest general in Hannibal. But then at the same time, the Athenians should not have been able to defeat the Persians. At the same time, Alexander and the Las Donis should not have been able to defeat the Persians. In fact, throughout human history, we've have a lot of instances cases where smaller armies have been able to defeat much larger armies. So think of Genghis Khan. Think of Mohammed. Okay, so clearly this is wrong, but if this is wrong, what is the better way to understand military strength? Well, I would argue how strong a military is is based on three criteria. The first is cohesion. Do the soldiers like and identify with each other? Are they united? Okay? Cohesion. Second, this idea of discipline. How well trained and experience are they and the third is devotion. How committed are they to winning? Okay, so if you want to see how powerful a nation is militarily, you have to ask yourself these three questions, are they cohesive? Are they disciplined? Are they devoted? Okay? And I would also argue that each nation has a certain culture, a certain value system, which makes which gives us a certain character, and this character will tell you if they're likely to win a war. Not. Okay, all right, so let's examine briefly the character characteristics of Rome, as opposed to the Greeks and the Carthaginians. Okay, so let's, let's do a table. Let's just say, Okay, you have rope, you have Greeks, you have Carthage, you have Rome. All right, we know a lot about the Greeks, and there are three major concepts that define Greek culture, okay, all right, so the first question is, what makes you a good person? For the Greeks, it was idea of Eritrea just means excellence. You could be an asshole, you could be a jerk, but if irritate like you have talent, then you're a good person, okay? And the irritate that the Greeks are most concerned about is the ability to speak well and the ability to fight. Well, okay, that's irritate. Something is, what is the thing that matters to you? Okay, the most valuable thing in your life. Well, what do you fight? Well, for the Greeks, it was the idea of freedom. And for them, the idea of freedom means the ability to speak your mind in front of your peers, the freedom of speech, basically. And the last question for the Greeks is, what is the purpose of life? Okay? And here the Greeks have an easy answer. It's eudaimonia. Remember, Eudaimonia is Greek for flourishing. You can only be happy as a person if you are achieving your true potential, if you are flourishing as a person. Okay, so that's Greek culture, and if you think about it, this explains why the Greeks were the most creative civilization in human history, right? They're very creative the same time, they're also very selfish, right? And that's why they were never able to come together, except in times of national emergency, like when the Persians invaded, and only then, but even then, only a few of the Greek city states came together, and some even joined the Persians. Okay, so the Greeks are notorious for being creative, but also being for being selfish. So that's Greek culture. Now let's look at the Carthaginians. Okay. Now, unfortunately, we don't know anything about the Carthaginians. The reason why is Rome wiped Carthage out of history. Okay, Rome destroyed Carthage, killed everyone and erased Carthage from the history books. But we do know they are a mercantile empire, meaning they are focused on trade. We also know that in their political system, it's the wealthiest citizens who have the most political power, okay, and so they are basically a merchant culture, a merchant mercantile culture. And from that we can, we can make certain guesses about their value system. Okay, so what is good for the constitutionians? It's the idea of being lucky, right? You succeed in life if you're lucky. That's how business people, right are. That's why they're very superstitious. The Carthaginians are notorious for being extremely religious and superstitious. And one example of this is of all these major civilizations, the Carthaginians are known for practising human sacrifice. In fact, in terms of war, they will even go as far as practising child sacrifice, killing children, killing children, and sacrificing them to the gods in return for Divine favour in times of war. Okay, so they are known for focusing on fortune and luck. What do they care about? They care about their own interests, right? What's profitable? What's their purpose in life, accumulating wealth? Does that make sense? Because these are business people. They're merchants. So that's how they structure their society and their culture, and that's why, for most of the history, they were extremely wealthy, okay, they were notorious for being extremely clever business people who made a lot of money for themselves. Rome, let's look at Rome. Okay, what is good for them? What's a good person? They're just piety. Piety just means duty to the gods, to the city Rome and to your father. Okay? They believe, they believe heavily in filial piety. The best person was someone who practised filial piety. Okay? What did they think was most valuable in their lives? Is the idea of liberty, okay? But Liberty is a different conception for the Romans than for the Greeks. Remember, for the Greeks, what mattered was the opportunity and the ability to speak your mind in front of your peers. Okay, that was, that's what freedom was. The Romans believed Liberty was about respecting the law, the institutions and the history of Rome. But it is only by respecting the law could you be free. Otherwise, we all just be savages. Okay, that's the conception of liberty. Now,

Prof. Jiang  29:50  
last question, then is, what's the purpose of life? And for the Romans, what really mattered to them is the idea of re publica, re pablica. This is last. It, and it's translated as, usually, public virtue, for the public good, okay? And this is where we get the term Republic from. And so for Romans, the highest honour, the highest privilege, the purpose of life was to serve Rome and make it stronger and better. You. Doesn't make sense. Standing for political office and being head of military was the highest honour Rome could bestow on you. That was entire point of point of your life, okay? Does that make sense? Okay? So if you we just do a compare contrast, we can easily figure out, oh, it's the Roman ethical system that will allow them the most cohesion, discipline and devotion in their military and therefore, over time, in a war, the Romans should be able to defeat both the Carthaginians and the Greeks. Does that matter? Sorry. Does that make sense to you? Okay. Any questions so far, is this clear? My argument,

Prof. Jiang  31:22  
Carthaginians? About Carthaginians. Okay, all right, so Rome, in the third picnic war, from 149 to 146 they would go and destroy Carthage. They would burn it to the ground, and then they would just, they would burn all the books that Carthage ever produced. So we don't have anything written by them, but we have a lot written by Greeks and Romans, right? These Greeks and Romans were always in conflict with the Carthaginians. And what's interesting for us is before all the colours started in about 300 BCE, the Romans and the Greeks had nice things to say about the Carthaginians. Okay. They were good fighters. They were brave. They were very prosperous. Carthage was like the wealthiest city in the world. Okay, they were they had all these praises for Carthage, and after when war started between the Carthaginians and Romans, then they focus on like child sacrifice. The Carthaginians were offended the gods because they practice child sacrifice, which is barbaric, and that's why the gods smited Carthage. Okay, remember, back at this time in human history, we didn't believe in human agency. Everything was was ordained by the gods. Okay? So if carved is destroyed, it's because the Gods Will it. Why do the Gods Will it? Because the Carthaginians practice child sacrifice, okay? And that's what the Romans and the Greeks insisted. Of course, that means we have to be sceptical of what they say, right? But at the same time, we've done a lot of archaeological excavations around Carthage, and we have found human human remains that show signs of human sacrifice. Okay, so we have the we have, we also Carthage comes from Phoenicia, right? We know about Phoenician culture. Okay, so we've lost a lot of information about Carthage, but we're able to piece them back together slowly. Does that make sense? All right, okay. But again, unfortunately, we know nothing about their culture, right? We don't know nothing about their literature, about their mythology, about their religion, because it's all been destroyed. The writing has all been destroyed by the Romans. Okay, so these three characteristics that define the Roman identity, right, piety, liberty and Republica, I want to explain. Them slowly, okay, so what the Romans really did well is they basically created history as mythology. Okay, so the Greeks separated mythology from history. Mythology is what the Greeks did. History is what humans did, okay, so basically the Greeks invented history. The Romans, they basically elevate their history into mythology. Their their history became their religion. Okay, so let me explain what I mean by that. So there are legends that surround the founding of Rome. So Rome was supposed to be founded in 753, BCE, by Romulus. Okay, and there are legends surrounding Romulus. And there are lots of legends surrounding Romulus, but the idea is this. There was a king, and he was overthrown by his brother, and the brother banished the king's daughter to a temple to be a virgin for the rest of her life. But then she got pregnant, and then so the brother says to the king's daughter, why are you pregnant? And the daughter says, I was visited by Mars, the god of war, and he impregnated me. Okay, the king's brother obviously does not believe her, so she he banishes her, and he orders for the twins who are born to be killed, okay, but as the case with these legends, the person charged with killing the twins takes pity on them, and somehow they are left to die in the woods. A she Wolf, a wolf comes and nurses them before another shepherd comes and adopts them, okay, eventually they realise who they are, and they help the king overthrow the brother and take back the Take Back the throne. Now, the brothers are asked to go and basically found their own city. So they go to Rome, and it's all just hills, right? And they decide this is the place to build their kingdom, because it's a river, the Tiber, and there are all these hills that provide good defence, okay? The problem is this, they're twins. There's two of them, Romulus and Remus, so and only one can be king. So they're so they get into a battle, and Romulus kills Remus, okay? And that's the founding Legend of Rome. And from this legend, we can sort of understand or make some extrapolations about the Roman psychology. They believe that violence is at the core of human existence, right? I mean, like, sometimes you have to kill your own brother, and that's the right thing to do, because that is ordained by the gods. Okay? So that's the first legend. Second legend is this, romless has to build Rome, and he becomes a very open person. He welcomes immigrants into Rome, and He grants them citizenship and status right away, Rome becomes a nation of immigrants. Eventually, their rise startles their neighbours, and their neighbours go to war with not once, the Romans are so good at war that they fight back the neighbours. The neighbours are called the Sabines. The Sabines decide, listen, we can't beat them in war. But at the same time, Rome is only has males, right? Rome only has males. So we will just isolate Rome. Our daughters will not marry into Rome, and in 20 years time, Rome will have no population. Okay? Romless hears of his plan, and he devises a strategy. What he does is he organises a huge festival, invites all his neighbours so fathers bring their daughters to attend this festival. At this festival, the women are kidnapped and they basically raped that night, romus visits every one of these women and apologises for what has happened and promised that they will be safe in Rome, that they are now citizens of Rome, and therefore they will be protected by him, personally, the king. The fathers and the brothers are obviously very upset about this, so they organise this huge army and they march against Rome. The Roman citizens come out to face them in battle, okay? And just as they're about to clash in battle, the woman come and run between them and beg the new husbands and their fathers and brothers not to fight. At this point, Romulus appears and says he will make everyone a citizen of Rome, okay? And by doing that, he basically doubled the population of Rome, all right? Again, from this legend, we can understand the Roman psychology, which is everything can be sacrificed in the pursuit of Roman glory, and basically to ensure that Romans that Rome survives. Okay? Because what matters is Rome. Okay, it's the cult of Rome. All that matters is the survival of Rome. Morals don't matter. Nothing matters. All that matters is survival of Rome. So after this, Rome starts to grow slowly and. And this is a period known as as the seven kings. So there's seven kings who rule Rome, and they do so for a very long time, about 200 plus years. And most of them are very, very good kings, except the last king. His name is Tarquinius. Tarcanius superbus. Okay, superbus is Latin for arrogant. So he's often referred to as Tarkin, the proud. Okay, so talking about proud he is, as his name suggests, a very arrogant King. What makes him arrogant is his hubris. He refuses to listen to the nobility. In fact, those in the nobility who challenge his authority often get killed. He has

Prof. Jiang  40:50  
a second son, and the second son, he's a jerk. He likes to abuse his power, and one thing that he like, he enjoys doing is raping the woman of Rome. There is one woman who is notorious or who is famous for her virtue. His name is Lucretia, and the prince thinks raping her will be the most fun, okay, because she will be the most insulted by this. So he rapes her, and then she or she goes and confronts her husband. Okay, her husband. And her husband has a friend. His name is Lucius Brutus. Lucius Brutus happens to be the nephew of the king, and he is very much opposed to a tyranny of the king, and Lucretia says to her husband and to his friend, Lucius Brutus, I've been raped. Will you promise me to avenge my honour? And the husband and Lucius Brutus, see she's distraught, okay? And so they sue her and promise her they will do if they can in the morning. And Lucretia, she doesn't really believe them. So what she does is she takes a knife out from her dress and she stabs herself in the heart, and she dies before them. Now they're honour bound to avenge her death, and so what Lucius, Buddhist does is he calls a meeting of the nobility, and they decide to gather to overflow the king. The king is out campaigning for he's basically at war. And what they do is they lock the gates of Rome. Now the King is furious. Okay? And so what the king does is he decides he's going to go back to a trishka, where he's from, and he's going to rally the other the his friends, the Kings, okay? Because if the Romans can overflow him, well, other people can overflow their kings, right? So this is a bad president. So he's going to organise a huge army to march against Rome. Meanwhile, Lucius Brutus, he's instituting the Republic now the king. The theme of the king is how all powers are invested in the king. These powers include military, judicial, deciding cases, legislative, making laws, administrative, bureaucratic, right and religious. Okay, so these are the five major duties of the king, and this is where his power comes from. So what Lucius Brutus and the Romans do is they separate his powers, not into individuals, but into institutions that are now elected by the people. Okay? This is the heart of republicanism. So the military will now run by the Council. The Council is basically the head of the state, okay? And again, he's elected. The judicial is run by the praetor. Legislator is the Senate. Administrative is the agile and the religious is the Pontifex Maximus, and again, they're all elected by the people. Now what's important to understand is it's usually nobility who are on the or who are all who are in these offices. But back then, there wasn't much separation between nobility and ordinary people. Okay, so nobility are what we call patricians. The patricians and the ordinary people are what we call the plebeians. And honestly, there was not much difference. The patricians are just this come from the longest fam, like the families who have been in Rome the longest, the oldest families, and they were wealthy, but not that much wealthier from ordinary Romans. So maybe you have one cow, right? Well, I have three cows. Also the people come. Go visit each other's homes without any ceremony. Okay? So you could be the head of state, you could be the council, but if I'm an ordinary person, I can just come to your house and have dinner with you. Okay? There were no doors, there were no guards, there was no separation. Okay, so Lucius Buddha has instituted a new system where the king's powers were divided among different institutions, and now people didn't have to obey the king that obeyed the Republic. The Republic was three things, the laws, the history, or traditions and institutions. Okay, that's the Republic. This system, unbelievably, incredibly, will not change for about 500 years. Okay, so it's pretty stable. Now, what's important to remember is these are not innovations. The Romans just basically copied this from the neighbours the Etruscans.

Prof. Jiang  46:12  
So the Romans have a republic. The problem with the Republic is everyone's equal. And so if you come from a privileged background, you find this very annoying. So now there's a conspiracy to bring back a king. And this conspiracy was discovered, and everyone was caught and imprisoned. It turns out Lucius Brutus has two sons. Okay? He has two sons, and they were both part of this conspiracy. They were tried by the Senate. They were all sentenced to death, including two sons of Lucius Brutus. Okay, the problem is this. The problem is the council has to oversee the execution of the prisoners whose counsel Lucius Brutus is counsel. Okay, so Lucius Buddhist has to oversee the execution of his two sons. Now, if Lucius Buddhist is like, you know what, I'm going to resign my office, or, Hey, you know what I'm I'm sick, everyone would be like, we understand, take the day off. Don't worry about it. Okay? Instead, Lucius Buddhist showed up for work and he oversaw the execution of his two sons. All of Rome came to the execution. Okay? It was a public event. Everyone was watching the face of Lucius Brutus. Okay, we know that two sons are going to die. They beheaded, but everyone wants to see Lucius Buddhist reactions. He was crying throughout execution. These are to his two sons, right? He has no more sons. This is his legacy now, and his two sons are but to be killed. In fact, he's he's the one charged with killing his own sons. He has to do it. Has no choice. So everyone's watching him, and throughout this process, he's crying. His tears are flowing down his face. He can't help himself, but he's still standing still, and he's still slowly ordering the execution of his two sons. And the Romans are just shocked by this public display. This is the idea of devotion, right? You are so devoted to Rome that you're willing to sacrifice your own children to ensure its survival and its glory. Tarquinius Tarkin, the proud hears about this, he gets really angry, so he allies himself with kings and they march against Rome. Lucius Buddhist is counsel. He's charged the military, so he marches his army against Tarkin the proud. When the sons of Tarkin the proud sees Lucius Buddhist, he charges ahead because he wants to kill the man who insulted his family. Lucius Buddhist sees the king's son running. They're both on horses right, running, galloping towards him, and Lucius Buddha gets angry, and so he charges his head as well. Lucid Buddhist throws his spear javelin. The king's son, the prince, throws his spear as well, and they spear each other to death, and they both die, okay, and so Lucius Brutus is, at this point, considered the greatest Roman whoever lived, okay, and for most of Roman history, he'll be considered the greatest woman ever lived until Julius Caesar. Okay? It was in the memory and honour of Lucius Brutus that they would assassinate Julius Caesar, but we'll discuss this next class. Okay, so the king's army is overwhelming the Romans and the Romans have to flee back into the city. There's a drawbridge that connects Rome to the mainland. Okay, so there's the river Tiber crosses. It crosses around Rome. There's a garrison that's supposed to be protecting the bridge, but they see the army coming, the army marching towards them. They get scared, and they run all into Rome. One guy, his name is cockles. He decides, I can't run away, because I run away, the army just marches into Rome and kills everyone. So he descends. He decides to make a last stand. And it's just one guy. There's one random guy, okay? And what he does is he starts shunning insults at the enemy army. He's like, You guys are slaves. We're Romans. We will always be free. And the enemy army and like their spouses of them, okay, they have absolutely no idea what's going on. This is one guy on a bridge, shining, insulting, insulting them. Okay? So they they freeze. Eventually they realise, Oh, this guy is just distracting us, because his friends, the other soldiers, are trying to cut down the bridge. So they run to him. At this point, two other Romans, okay, two officers run besides cockles, and together, the three of them hold off the invading army together with their shields, they fight for their lives. Eventually, the bridge is about to be cut down. Okay, the two officers run away, and cockles makes the last stand, and the bridge falls. And what cockles does is, before it falls completely. He jumps into the Tiber, and he survives. He doesn't drown. So this tells us, hey, anyone can be a hero of Rome, right? Lucius, Buddhist. He's the king's nephew. He's nobility, but coffles, he's just an ordinary Roman who had the courage, he had the devotion, to fight for Rome, okay, and by doing so, with his devotion, he's able to save Rome by himself. So Rome, right now, is surrounded by this huge army, and one young man. His name is mucius, and he's a Roman nobleman, okay? He goes to the Senate, and he says, the Senate, listen, we're being surrounded by an enemy army. They're huge. We're starving to death. I have a plan to win this war. I'm going to swim across the Tiber, sneak into the enemy camp and kill the enemy king, and as well, when the Senate gives musius His approval and mucius sneaks into the enemy camp, it's payday, which means the soldiers are getting their wages, right? Mucius sneaks into the front and he sees on the podium, there are two individuals who are giving out wages to the soldiers. They both look like the king, once a king and once a secretary, they look the same. Musius doesn't know who's the king and who's the secretary. You know, at this point, an ordinary person would be like, I'll come back later. Like, let me figure out, let me spy first and figure out who the king is, and then when a better opportunity arises, I'll kill the king. Moose is like, it's 5050, man. So he takes his knife, rushes the podium, and stops one of the man who happens to be the secretary, okay? So he's arrested, and the king is now interrogating him. He wants to know there are other spies in the camp. The king says to mosiahs, tell me the truth, or I will burn you are alive, okay? And he shows Moses the pyre. Okay with this huge fire. Moses says, I am one of 100 young Romans who have pledged their lives to kill you to free Rome. He's lying. This is not true. You kill me, you'll be 99 more. Okay. We are not afraid of you. You say you will burn me if I do not tell you the truth. Now what he does is he puts his hand into the fire. His hand is burning, okay? And he holds it together and. What makes him pull it together is what he sees is the face of Lucius Buddhist as he orders execution of his two sons. Right? Because ordering execution of your two sons is a lot harder than burning your hand alive, okay? Than burning your hand. And the king, he looks at this and he thinks, the Romans are the craziest bastards I have ever met. Screw this. I'm going home. And he lets bushes go, and the war is over, and that's how the Roman Republic survived the invasion and became the Republic.

Prof. Jiang  55:50  
So this is a history of Rome, and this history is something that can be taught to anyone who becomes a citizen. If you are Roman, you it's because you believe in this history, believing in this history, knowing this history, is what makes you a Roman Okay, so the first concept, piety, loyalty to Rome. Second concept that makes you Rome unique or powerful is the idea of liberty. What cavos did, what Lucius did, what Lucius Buddhist did, was preserve the liberty of Rome. Remember what Liberty means is respecting and following the laws, institutions and history of Rome, because that's what makes Rome Rome. That's what allows you to have freedom, okay? And that's why, in 216 even though Hannibal had defeated the Romans, the Romans refused to surrender, because surrendering would mean surrendering their liberty, right? Because Hannibal would impose peace terms that would that wouldn't make basically Rome into a client state of Carthage. They would lose their liberty, right? And if you want liberty, your life isn't worth living. Give me life or give me liberty. Okay? The third element of Roman greatness is the idea of this right? Republica, right? So what this means is, every nobleman, if you have the ability you want to serve Rome, okay? So what they did was this. They turned Roman politics into a competition to to to produce the best men. Okay, it was basically a meritocracy. So once you have the financial means, you stood for election, and this system was basically a meritocracy, okay, you first stood for election to become an adile and then you became a praetor, and then you became a council. Once you are Council, you have the opportunity to win the highest glory. Okay, what you can do is become a governor of a faraway province. And if you are governor of this far away province, and you can win more territory for Rome, then you'll be given something called a triumph. Triumph. Triumph is a big parade where you are celebrated by all the Roman people. And that's what every Roman soldier aspired to, to become a great general who would receive His own triumph because he's won new territory for Rome, okay? And that's why, even though a third of the Roman senate was wiped out by Hannibal, they didn't give up. Because the other people were like, Okay, now here's my opportunity to prove myself right. And one of these young people, his name is Scipio, he would go on and lead an army into Spain, conquer Spain, and then lead an army against Hannibal in North Africa, in Carthage, and destroy Hannibal. Okay? Because the point of life is to receive the triumph. And if you receive the Triumph then you were remembered by Romans in their history, which is what gives your life meaning. All right? So do we understand these concepts, piety, liberty and Republica? Because they are the essence of the Roman identity, and they are what made Rome great. Sure.

Prof. Jiang  59:59  
Okay. Oh, all right, so sorry. Lucius Buddhist, okay. Lucius Buddhist, overflow the king. He established the Roman Republic. The Roman Republic is now a nation of laws. His two sons are princes, and they lost their privileges, so they partake in this conspiracy to bring back the king, right? This conspiracy was discovered, and as punishment, they were all sentenced to death because they wanted to destroy the Republic and bring back the king. Does that make sense? So what story? Again, we don't know if these stories are true. They're probably not true. Okay, what this story is telling us is, if the founder of the Roman Republic can sacrifice his family in order to make sure the Republic survives, well, you can as well. Okay, no sacrifice. Every sacrifice must be made to ensure Roman greatness. That's basically the message, right? Any more questions? That's a great question. Okay, so how do we know this? The answer is this, for most of this time, this is what we call oral history. Okay, so this is, like, you know, mythology, and it was basically passed from generation to generation. This oral history was written down in books, but because Rome was at work so much, Rome was conquered once, and Rome was burnt down, and so we lost a lot of the written history. Okay? Now the problem of oral history is there are different versions of oral history. Okay? So there are different versions of these stories. And then a man named, named Livy, during the time of Roman Empire, when it was first founded, he sat down to write the official history of Rome. And this is where we get all these stories from, okay? And again, we don't believe these stories to be that true. Okay, there's probably there's Lucius Buddhist was probably a real person, but whether he did these things, we don't know. Okay, it's debatable, but what matters is, this is what Romans believed. Okay, if you understand what matters is what they believe as opposed to what really happened. And this is what creates the Roman identity, right? Great. Any more questions. Okay, so, yeah, I mean, that's basically it, okay. This is what made Rome great, and that's what allowed them to come back from the defeats that Hannibal inflicted on them to eventually win the war. Okay, hmm, any more questions.

Prof. Jiang  1:03:26  
80,000 army against Hannibal. Yes,

Prof. Jiang  1:03:40  
other words, take the time. Okay, that's, that's a great question. Okay, so like you want to, you want to know more about Hannibal's invasion of Italy, right? Okay, all right, so Rome, what Rome is able to do is offer citizenship to anyone who fights for Rome. And Rome has been for longest time, been fighting its neighbours. Right? Once it conquered its neighbours, its neighbours promised to send soldiers to Rome in times of war. So Rome is able to draw on soldiers from all around the Italian peninsula. Okay, that's the first thing. Second thing is that when Hannibal invaded Italy, he was doing so with many Gauls. Okay, who are the invaders of Italy? And these Gauls have traditionally been the enemy of the Italians, so when Hannibal did so, Rome's neighbours rallied to Rome's support. To support Rome. Okay? Because they saw the Gauls and Hannibal as invaders who threatened their culture. Okay? That's second thing. The third thing is, Hannibal had an invading army, right? But he had no organisational and logistics support. He had no food supply because he was basically doing this on his own initiative. Carthage is too far away, okay? And Rome had the best like Navy in the Mediterranean, so there was no way that Carthage could resupply Hannibal. Sorry, so there's no way Carthage could resupply Hannibal, right? So Hannibal was forced to spend a lot of time foraging for food, you understand, and that's ultimately why he lost the war, because it's possible for you to win all these battles, because you're a military genius, but you start to feed your soldiers. And what Rome did after the Battle of canine was they recognised this fact. They recognised that Hannibal's main problem was logistics, and they started to not they wouldn't. They decide, we will never fight Hannibal in a battle again. We will cut off his food supply, okay? And so Hannibal had to spend most of his time forging for food. Meanwhile, Rome could rebuild itself by freeing its slaves, okay, and by recruiting more neighbours just to join their cause. Does that make sense? That's why. That's why armies don't win wars. Nations win wars. Does that make sense? So another thing that you need to understand is while Hannibal was winning glory in Italy, the cosmic elders in carvers. Were they happy about this? Do you think these are business people, right? Are they happy about this? They're not happy about this, because, one, it's gonna cost them a lot of money to continue to continue the war. And listen, Italy is poor, so there's no profit to be made from conquering Rome. That's the first problem. Second problem is, if Hannibal were to win glory in Italy, he would come back and become king of Carthage, right? Does that make sense? So Hannibal was being undermined by Carthage itself, even though Hannibal was trying to save Carthage. Does that make sense? And that's what makes Rome unique. Rome has been united for most of its history, whereas most places like Greece and Carthage were divided into different political factions. That's what caused Carthage to ultimately be undermined. So ultimately, Rome was able to come back from this defeat and defeat Carthage, because Carthage again saw Hannibal as big as a threat as Rome. Okay, this would, this would be costly for Carthage because after the war is over 50 years later, Rome, a Roman senator named Cato the elder, he visits Carthage because he's curious what's happened to Carthage after the end of the war. And to his dismay and to his shock, Carthage has become wealthier than ever before. Okay, 50 years of peace means that Carthage is able to accumulate more wealth than ever before. It has so much wealth that is able to pay off the indemnity that Rome imposed on it. Okay, it's basically able to pay off, pay Rome off. And Cato. Cato the elder, he is traumatised by this. He goes back to Rome and says, We have to destroy Carthage. Okay, there's a huge debate in the Senate. He says, Listen, we let Carthage survive. Carthage will always be a threat to us. And the other senators were like, listen, Cato, I know you want to destroy Carthage, but remember, Carthage threatens us. If we destroy Carthage, we Rome will no longer have an enemy. We will no longer have a threat. We will change as a people if we destroy Carthage. But Caleb elder insisted, and eventually an army was dispatched to destroy Carthage. The Romans have a habit of always blaming the enemies for starting a war. Okay, so they didn't want to instigate the war, so they made up these dumb excuses and said that Carthage was violating the peace treaty. And the Romans said to Carthage, listen, if you surrender all your weapons, we will go away. The Carthaginians believed the Romans and thought, if they surrender all the weapons. They go away. The Romans got all these weapons. They were like, We didn't expect this man. So the Romans said to the Carthaginians, you know what? We also need you to move your city from the coast, 10 kilometres inland. And at this point, the carthages knew Rome was going to destroy Carthage, so there's a three year siege, and then at the end of it, Rome conquered Carthage, killed everyone inside, enslaved others, burned all the books and wiped out Carthage from history as well as the history books. Okay, so that's a Roman mentality. Devotion means all or nothing. Okay, you don't surrender, but you also don't show mercy to your enemies. Okay, so Hannibal was right. Rome was a threat to Carthage, but because Carthage has a merchant culture run by business people, they could never recognise the threat. Does that make sense? All right, any more questions? Good,

Prof. Jiang  1:11:21  
public virtue, yeah, why do people want to come to Rome, just because of that

Prof. Jiang  1:11:37  
citizenship, those beliefs? Okay, so, why do people want to come to Rome? Well, the fact that matters that for most of history, well, for most of history, people didn't want to go to Rome because Rome was considered a like, for example, Greeks didn't want to go to Rome because they thought Rome was uncivilised and Roman, but Romans wanted to go to Athens because they thought Athens was the height of civilization, right? The Carthaginians certainly didn't want to go to Rome. Okay, Rome was like Macedonia. So basically, North Korea, even, you can even say it's like North Korea, okay, it's a militaristic society that's barbaric, right? The Greeks like to watch theatre. The Romans like to watch gladiator shows or lions eat people. Okay, so for most of its history, people avoided Rome. When becoming a republic, you had no choice but to go to Rome, because that's how you could build your career. It was the capital of the world. Okay, does that make sense? So? Another saying this is there were many people who want to be Greek because they were attracted by the culture. Nobody wanted to be Roman. The Romans made everyone into a Roman through the conquest. So the Romans were repugnant in many ways. They just, they just were a repugnant people. Any

Prof. Jiang  1:13:06  
more questions, any more

Prof. Jiang  1:13:14  
any more questions? Okay, great. So next class. It's a fun class. We do Julius Caesar.

