Prof. Jiang  0:01  
So we are doing Octavius and the birth of the Roman Empire today. Okay, so let's review where we are. There is 44 BCE, and Julius Caesar has just been assassinated, and the three main conspirators, there are 60 senators, but the three main conspirators are Marcus Brutus, who is considered the leader of the conspiracy, Cassius and Decimus, Buddhist, okay, and after they assassinated, Caesar, obviously Romans and tormal and Mark Anthony, who is currently the Council or the head of state in Rome, he reaches an agreement with these conspirators. The agreement is this, Mark Anthony, who is a staunch ally of Julius Caesar, he will not seek retribution, and in return, the conspirators will declare that Caesar was not a tyrant. He did not want to become king. Okay, so a peace element was reached to avoid a civil war.

Prof. Jiang  1:26  
The problem is that Mark Anthony was working behind the scenes to work up Roman people against conspirators, and eventually, public sentiment was so much against the conspirators, they had to flee to the provinces. And then Mark Anthony read the will of Caesar. Caesar's will, remember that there's private property in Rome, and so when a man dies, he has a will. And then this will stipulates how this private property will be distributed. Okay, and there are three really surprising things about the will. The first thing is that Caesar, right now, is the wealthiest man in Rome, and he stipulates that upon his death, every Roman citizen will get three months of a soldier's wage. That's a lot of money. Okay? That's extreme generosity. He also stipulates that a lot of his private property will be turned into public parks for the benefit of the Roman people. So this will demonstrates Caesar's love of his people. Okay, the second thing is actually more surprising. Mark Anthony believe, believed that he would be, he would be named the heir to Caesar's legacy and wealth in the in the will. But in fact, Caesar names this complete stranger to be his heir. His name is Octavius. And Caesar named Octavius to be his adopted son. And so Octavius name is actually Gaius Octavius, and upon the adoption of, upon his adoption, he is now named Gaius Julius Caesar Octavius. This is like much too complicated, so historians use the shorthand, Octavian. Okay, so we will name now. Name this person Octavian, and this is the historical shorthand, even though this is not his real name. So that's the second big surprise in the will. And the third big surprise is this, Caesar names secondary heroes. These are individuals who will inherit Caesar's property and legacy if Octavian were to die. Mark Anthony is a secondary here, but so is Decimus Brutus, one of the men who conspired to kill Caesar. Okay, so this will of Caesar's, it is shocking, and it shows to the wrong people that Caesar really loved them, and that Caesar loved everyone, including the people who conspired to kill him. Okay, Mark Anthony is very upset about this. Will so that when Octavian and Octavian right now, he's only 18 years old, okay, he's only 18 years old, and returns to claim his legacy. Mark Anthony. Mark Anthony is so upset that he refuses to meet with Octavian and he refuses to give Caesar. Is property and wealth. To Octavian, remember, the first stipulation of the will is that every Roman citizen will be given three months of wages, okay? And Octavian, what he does is to honour Caesar's will. He borrows money, okay? This is a lot of money in order to ensure that every citizen got three months of wages. So in this situation, okay? And this is only a few months after Caesar's death, this is now a volatile Game of Thrones. Situation, Game of Thrones. Mark Anthony considers himself the legitimate heir of Caesar and refuses to acknowledge octave Octavian. Octavian has returned and demands to be acknowledged as the here. Okay, so that's one conflict. The other conflict is you have these three conspirators, Decimus, Buddhist Marcus, Buddhists and Cassius, and they're not in Rome, but they are in the provinces with huge armies. Okay, so Decimus Buddhist, he is in Gaul Marcus Buddhist, and Cassius are in the Roman east, which includes Anatolia and Syria, okay, extremely wealthy provinces where they have many loyal soldiers, and they understand that eventually there's a conflict coming, so they raise a huge army, about 100,000 soldiers, to prepare for the eventual conflict. And this is like the largest army ever assembled in Roman history. You also have a named lepitus, who is a very competent administrator, and he has his own army, and he actually wanted to avenge Caesar, but Mark ethics stopped him. Okay, so Lepidus is also part of the equation. In the centre is a name named Cicero. Cicero is considered one of the greatest orators in Roman history. It was very common. It's very common as part of liberal arts education to study the speeches of Cicero. Okay, and Cicero is the last remaining optimate when the optimates are the ones who are conservatives and who believe in the primacy of the Senate. So Cicero is right now in charge of the Senate, and everyone in this Game of Thrones has different motivation, right? So Cicero, his main motivation is to maintain the supremacy of the Senate. So he wants a balance of power. So what he will do is he will play everyone off against each other in order to maintain the supremacy of the Senate and therefore his authority. That's Cicero Octavian wants to be the hero of Caesar, but so so is Mark Anthony, and Lepidus also wants to be a hero as well. And then on the other side are Decimus Buddhist, Marcus Buddhist, and Cassius, who are fighting for their own legacy. Okay? So this is, this is the situation in 44 BCE, and it's a game of thrones situation. And you could, you would expect the one who would most likely lose this game of thrones would be Octavian, right? He's 80 years old. He's got no army, and he has no allies in Rome. What happens over the next 15 years is one by one, Octavian destroys all his enemies. What happens first is that Mark Anthony goes to war with Decimus Buddhist. Decimus Buddhist is in charge of Gaul, and Mark Anthony wants the armies of Decimus Buddhist. So Mark Anthony marches against Decimus Buddhist, and then Cicero to maintain the mass of power. He authorises Octavian to raise his own army to challenge Mark Anthony. Okay, so now they're at war with each other. Eventually, Mark Anthony loses, and then he steals basically leopard his army to march against Decimus, Buddhists again, and at this point, what happens is very strange. The three of them, Lepidus, Octavian and Mark Anthony, they sit, they sit down together, and then they agree to share power and form their own dictatorship. This is what we call the Second Triumvirate. Okay, the Second Triumvirate is brutal. They the first one they decided to do is kill all their enemies, anyone who could challenge them, including Cicero, who was previously the patron of Octavian right? So they killed about a third of the Senate and replace everyone with a. Replace the Senate with their allies. Then Mark Anthony Octavian marched against Marcus Buddhist and Cassius, okay. Decimus Buddhist has been destroyed. They now March against Marcus Buddhist and Cassius. And in 42 BCE, they fight the battle of Philippi in Macedon in Macedonia, okay, Philippe is a city named after King Philip and in this battle, Mark Anthony and Octavian triumph in the largest battle in history at that time. Okay? And after this battle where Marcus, Buddhist and Cassius are killed, Octavian Mark Anthony and Lepidus agreed to share the world. So Octavian would get Rome, Lepidus would get Northern Africa, and Mark Anthony would get Egypt and the Near East, Anatolia, Syria. So Mark Anthony basically gets the lion share of the Roman world, okay? And they agree to share it. Then what happens is Lepidus comes into conflict with Mark Anthony, sorry. Lepidus comes in conflict with Octavian, and Octavian gives a speech to Lepidus soldiers who ought defect over to Octavian. Then Octavian comes in conflict with Mark Anthony and in 31 BCE at the Battle of

Prof. Jiang  11:29  
what's that battle called, again, 31 Actium. Sorry, acting in Greece, it's a huge battle where Anthony's forces are aligned with Cleopatra forces against Octavian in this battle. What happens is basically Mark Anthony and Cleopatra, they run away from the battle where and then we turn to Azmain, and then Octavian goes and hunts them down, and they both commit suicide before they're captured. And then this ends in 27 BCE, when Octavian returns to the Senate, the Roman Senate in triumph, and they declare him Augustus Caesar. Okay, Augustus Caesar, his name has now changed to Augustus Caesar, and he's considered the first emperor of Rome. Okay, so this is the brief history. Now I want to ask the question, How did Octavian again, who in 44 BC, he's only 18 years old. He has no army. Has very few allies in Rome. How was he able to triumph over everyone? Okay, all right. And there are different explanations. The first you can say is just, well, he got lucky, okay, yeah, I know he he was lucky. And that's that is a possibility, but you don't become emperor by becoming lucky. Okay, so that's that doesn't suffice. Second is you can say he was brilliant. Julius Caesar's was brilliant, right? King Philip Azmain was brilliant. These are all brilliant people. Very few people say octave Octavian was a blunt person. He didn't have the charisma of Julius Caesar. His oration was good, but nowhere near as good as, say, Mark Anthony's or other Romans. Okay? And he, and it was, it's generally agreed upon that he was a terrible, terrible military leader and strategist. He want? He lost a lot of wars. Sorry, he lost a lot of battles during this conflict. Okay, so he was not a great military leader. So he was not brilliant. I mean, he was brilliant in his own way. He was blunt politically, but he was not brilliant in the traditional sense, okay? The third explanation is, well, he's just ruthless. He will do anything for power. And again, this is true. There is some truth to this. But guess what? In the Roman world, everyone was ruthless, right? Mark Anthony was especially ruthless. Mark Anthony killed his own wife. So that doesn't explain it. Fourth is the legions, the army. They remembered Caesar, Julius Caesar, and now that Octavian is considered the son of Julius Caesar, the Legions swore loyalty to him. And that is true, okay, but they also swore loyalty to Mark Anthony. And you can, you can argue Mark Anthony has saw her claim to Caesar's legacy than Octavian, so that, by itself, doesn't explain it either. Next explanation is Marcus Agrippa. And Marcus Agrippa is considered octavian's partner, and he was considered a great general, and it was actually Marcus Agrippa who was. Responsible for all of octavian's major military victories, especially the Battle of Actium, which basically ended the Civil War. And this, again, is true. Marcus Agrippa is a blunt military leader, but so were Cassius Decimus. There were other brilliant military leaders. The other issue is that in this ruthless world of Roman politics, how could Octavian trust Marcus Agrippa, and why did Marcus Agrippa stay loyal to Octavian okay? Okay, so these are five explanations, and there's all some truth to that, okay, but I want to offer you today another explanation. An explanation is this, the death of Caesar allowed Octavian to become emperor. Okay? And here's my argument. Remember last class we said that Caesar his greatness was in his myth making genius. He created a myth of himself that he was a man of destiny who would save the Republic. But his myth was counter to other myths that were that were more dominant in Rome, especially the myth of Lucius Brutus. Right? Lucius Brutus the man who created the Republic and killed the king. And so Caesar had this great myth, but it was against other dominant myths. When Caesar was killed, it made his myth the dominant myth of Rome. In fact, it turned his myth into reality, and it was just new reality that propelled Octavian into power. Okay, so another simple way of saying this is that it was the love of the Roman people that propelled Octavian into power. And we see this in history all the time, right? So, for example, in Canada, Douglas from Canada, so So am I, there's a man named Justin Trudeau, the most incompetent person politician you will ever meet, okay, but he's Prime Minister, and he's been Prime Minister and he's been Prime Minister for like, 10 years, right? Why? Because his father is Pierre Trudeau, who is considered one of the most popular Prime Ministers in Kenya in history, right? So it was basically people transferring their love of Pierre Trudeau onto the son. Okay, so that's one example. The other example, of course, in America, is George W Bush, right, whose father was George H W Bush, who was considered, you know, a very good president. Okay, so is it? Yeah, Doug,

Unknown Speaker  18:13  
yep, just thinking about different examples of this, like you can see this in Russia, like there's the revolution that's right figure that that's right from his legacy everybody tries

Prof. Jiang  18:31  
to build here in China. That's right. So, so if you think about it, politics, political change, it's really about of myths, right? If you want to create political change, you have to change those under you have to change the myths, and new governments will create new myths. Okay, all right, great. All right, so that's a basic thesis. Okay, so let me explain it some more. Okay, so let's go back to the death of Julius Caesar, the assassination of Julius Caesar, and there were three major assassins, as I said, Decimus Buddhist, Marcus Buddhist, who was considered a leader in Cassius. And they were just the leaders of a huge conspiracy that involved 60 senators. That's about 7% of the Roman Senate. That's a lot of people, man, right? Some percent of the Roman Senate. And each of these individuals have different reason for wanting Caesar death. Okay, so Decimus Buddhist was considered Julius most competent general, okay? And he wanted to be nauseous as such. So you could say that Decimus Buddhist, he was driven by jealousy, or maybe Fortran ambition. Okay, you want to prove he's prove that he was better than Julius Caesar. So that's Decimus Buddhist. Cassius is a different story. Cassius fought for Pompeii, the great. He. And because Cassius was such a great general, Julius Caesar showed mercy to him and forgave him and made him a general, his own general. Okay, so this is Caesar demonstrating his benevolence and clemency and mercy. The problem is that in the Roman world, Mercy is not considered a good thing, okay, so by showing mercy on Cassius, Cassius could have interpreted, interpreted this as Caesar showing contempt for him. Caesar didn't really see him as a threat, okay? And so, see, Cass might have been moulded by a sense, like a desire for vengeance, right? Marcus Buddhist is the most interesting example, the most interesting person here. And actually, you know, Shakespeare wrote a play about Marcus Brutus called Julius Caesar. Okay. It was really about Marcus Buddhist. It was, it was trying to explain the psychology and motivations of why Marcus Buddhist would want Caesar dead. Okay, Marcus Buddhist did fight for Pompey the great, but he's also the son of Julius Caesar's favourite mistress, favourite lover. And so Julius Caesar made a point of telling his soldiers, do not kill this guy in battle if you see him, capture him and send him to me. And so Brutus was Marcus Buddhist was captured, and Julius Caesar adopted him basically as a son, and he basically Fast Track Marcus Buddhist career. And so Marcus Buddhist had every reason to thank Julius Caesar, right? But instead, Marcus Brutus becomes the major, the main conspirator. And in the play by Shakespeare, Julius Caesar, the argument that Shakespeare makes is Marcus Brutus is driven by his own sense of virtue, okay, basically vanity. He believes, or he's told, that he's named after Lucius Buddhist, the final Republic. And therefore he has a responsibility to save the Republic from wannabe tyrants like Caesar. And that's what drives him. What Shakespeare doesn't mention, though, is what Romans believe is that Marcus Brutus is the son, theological son, of Judas Caesar. Okay, so, so maybe there was that interpersonal dynamic where Marcus Brutus despised Caesar. Okay, all right. So it's a very complicated situation, but what unites everyone is that it's a feeling that Rome was changing too fast. Okay, so remember Julius Caesar? He did what he did, or in order to save the Republic, to restore the Republic. And so when he when he had obtained power, he was making changes that were necessary, but which changed the Roman sense of themselves. Okay, so one example is he brought in senators from the provinces, and these were aristocrats who spoke perfect Latin, but because it was from the provinces, and there were foreigners, the Roman people were very upset by this. Okay, that's the first thing. Second thing is Caesar and a corruption in the provinces that goes against the interest of the nobility, because one way for you to become rich as a noble person, is to go to provinces and steal a lot of money. Okay, so Caesar was doing a lot of things that were good for the Empire and for the Republic in the long term, but which hurt the interests of the senators and nobility in the short term. This is what caused the conflict. Okay,

Prof. Jiang  24:05  
and because Caesar was so fast and so effective in its reforms, it not only sort of disturbed the nobility, but also disturbed the people as well. Because Romans are very conservative, they were not used to all these changes happening so fast, and so this is what compelled the conspirators to act against Caesar, okay, but this raises a very interesting question. Caesar is a genius. He's brilliant. How could he not see this coming, right? How could he not imagine the possibility that people were conspiring against him? And the answer, okay, this is hard for us to understand today, but it was unimaginable that they would conspire to kill. Caesar in the Senate. Okay? So there are lots of taboos in Rome. One major taboo is the idea of the promo merium. Okay, the promerium is just means the boundary of Rome. And the idea here is that Rome, the city of Rome, the fiscal geographic space of Rome. It is sacred and divine. It is protected by the gods, and therefore, you are not allowed to bring weapons into Rome. If you're a soldier, you must come in as a part citizen. You are not allowed to come in as a soldier. You are not allowed to commit acts of violence within the pomerium. Otherwise, the gods will spite you. The gods will take vengeance against you. Okay, so that's the first taboo. Second taboo is this, the Senate is considered the most sacred and divine space in the entire in all of Rome, and so no one's allowed to bring weapons, no one's allowed to commit violence in the Senate. Okay, also, the Senate's laws are basically the laws of the gods. The Senate declared the body of Julius Caesar to be sacrosanct, meaning divine and sacred. You are not allowed to touch the body of Julius Caesar. The third thing is that everyone in the Senate was personally appointed by Julius Caesar, so everyone owed their good fortune to the generosity of Julius Caesar. You understand, it was just unimaginable for Julius Caesar to think that his friends could be conspiring against him. Does that make sense? So far, guys, it was beyond the imagination of Julius Caesar. But if this is true, then something else is true, which is that Julius Caesar did not want to become king because being king was the ultimate taboo in Rome. Does that make sense? Julius Caesar could not imagine that Brutus would kill him, because he, like all Romans, believed in these taboos. And the ultimate taboo was Rome could never, should never, have a king. So he himself did not want to become king. He was behaving very arrogantly. He was behaving like a king, but he did not have but he would not become king himself, because it would go against the Roman Republic. It would defy all the taboos of the Roman Republic, okay? And also, before Caesar, there was also another dictator named sola, okay. This example sola is he's a man who comes into power, kills all his enemies, and then he retires. Okay? He could become king, but he chose to not become king, because to become king would mean the death of the Republic. And that's not taboo. That's a Rubicon. He refused to cross. Okay, so we can imagine that Caesar saw himself as a better sola, okay, as a more merciful sola. He would not kill his enemies. He would show generosity to his enemies, and he would restore the Republic to its greatness. He would make the necessary reforms, then he would retire and lead the Republic as it was. Okay. Okay? Does that make sense? All right, so it was unimaginable for Caesar that to think that he'll be killed. And also, what's interesting is, what do you think happened to these three individuals after they killed Caesar? Right? They killed Caesar because they feared Caesar would become king. But after they killed Caesar, what they recognised is they could only kill Caesar because Caesar did not want to become king right? Otherwise Caesar would surround himself with bodyguards. Otherwise Caesar would not make himself available to his enemies. So upon the death of Caesar, all his enemies, Decimus, Marcus and Cassius, realised they won the wrong but not only of that, but the very attitude of the people of Rome change right? While Caesar was alive, the Roman people were very sceptical towards Caesar, because they feared that he become king. Right? They love Caesar, but they were afraid that Caesar was too ambitious. But. Upon the death of Caesar, the one people felt tremendous guilt for doubting Caesar. Does it make sense? Right? Because it was your doubt that allowed the conspirators to kill Caesar. If all they did was believe in Caesar, they believe that's in Caesar's myth that he was here as a man of destiny to restore the Republic, and that's all he cared about. He didn't want to become king, then Caesar would still be alive, okay? And to compound the guilt, Caesar showered the people with generosity upon his death, right? Okay. So you can see how the death of Caesar creates this new creates this new reality where people now recognise Caesar did not want to become king. All he wanted to do was save the Republic. And people are now. They're sort of sort of paralysed by their guilt. All right. So the evidence for this is this, while Decimus Brutus was being attacked by Mark Anthony and the lady by Octavian, Cassius told Marcus Brutus, hey, maybe we should come to this guy's aid. He's our ally. If he falls, they're gonna come after us next. And Marcus Brutus did nothing. He refused to act. All right, and the reason why is he could not act. He killed Julius Caesar because Julius Caesar was too ambitious. But if Marcus Brutus were to move his army against Rome, then Marcus Brutus is ambitious one. He's the one who wants to become king, right? Therefore, Marcus, Brutus and Cassius could only wait for their deaths, because if they're the case, the belief that Caesar once become King wasn't true. It could be true, and therefore they committed wrong against Rome by killing Caesar. Okay, does that make sense? So this explains his enemies. How about Mark Anthony? Okay, so Mark Anthony had a different problem. Mark Anthony loves Caesar so much he wanted to continue Caesar's legacy, and Mark Anthony sort of felt betrayed by Caesar when Caesar named Octavian to be the hero and not Mark Anthony. And so what does Mark Anthony want to do now? Well, he wants to prove that Caesar is wrong. Mark Anthony wants to prove that he is the rightful hero of Caesar, and to prove so he will continue his legacy. Okay, so Mark Anthony started to do some sorry, to do things that were against his own personal self interest and with which ultimately led to his self destruction. The first thing that he did was he marched against the Parthians. The Parthians are Rome's last great enemy. Okay, Rome destroyed Carthage. Rome destroyed the Greeks, but the Parthians still had an empire to the east of Rome and Romans, Roman generals failed to make inroads against against Parthia. And in fact, Julius Caesar, he wanted to basically end his life by invading Parthia. Okay, so Julius Caesar's plan before his death was to attack Parthia, conquer it, then sweep back to Europe and conquer Germany, okay, basically conquer the whole world to prove he's better than Azmain The Great. So Mark Endy decides that this is how he will prove he is Caesar's rightful here by finishing Caesar's

Prof. Jiang  34:01  
legacy against the Parthians, okay, the problem is Romans are not good again. Are not good at war against the Parthians and the Persians, okay? Because the Romans are infantry focused and the Parthenon, the Persians are cavalry focused, right? They have horses so markedly, goes over to Parthia and he gets his ass kicked, all right? He gets his ass kicked. He's not Judah Caesar. He's not the here to Judaism Caesar, and he falls into a major depression. He basically becomes a drunk, okay, that's his first major mistake. Second major mistake he makes is he falls in love with Cleopatra. Cleopatra is the queen of Egypt, but much more importantly, she is the mistress of Julius Caesar. In fact, rumours were that upon his retirement, Julius Caesar would bring Cleopatra to Rome, and they would live happily ever after. Okay. Okay, that's the rumour. So Mark Anthony goes over to Egypt, and he becomes the lover to Cleopatra, because he's trying to be Julius Caesar now. And this is a problem, because, to me, to marry Cleopatra, he has to divorce his wife, who happens to be the sister of Octavian. Okay, so this causes a personal rift between Octavian and Mark Anthony. And the third thing that that he does, which is what causes his demise, is he names in his will, okay, he names in his will that his children with Cleopatra will become the heirs to the Roman east. All the property, all that land that markantly controls, will be given to his children with Cleopatra. They're foreign citizens, and also Mark Antony doesn't have the authority to give that land out to his children only the Senate has the authority. Okay, so mark so Octavian used the will as a pretext to attack Mark Anthony, and he's heavily supported by the Roman people, okay, so Mark Anthony because he's trying so hard to escape the shadow of Julius Caesar, because he's trying so hard to prove he is illegitimate. Here to Julius Caesar, he basically self destructs. He didn't have to do any of this, but he did, and by doing all this, it guarantees his destruction. Okay, so Mark, I think basically self destructs. Let's look at Lepidus. Okay, Lepidus, he is an extremely effective administrator, but he is not as charismatic as charismatic and as blunt as US Caesar and Lepidus basically shied away. Okay, he didn't have the confidence to challenge Octavian for the ultimate power, and seeing this lack of confidence in this insecurity, his soldiers basically went off to join Octavian, okay? And a lot of soldiers did that. A lot of soldiers that were fighting for the enemy's side would just jump ship, because Octavian is the Heer of Julius Caesar, okay? He is the new Julius Caesar, and they all worship Julius Caesar, right? You now let's look at Octavian Why did Octavian succeed so much again, he began partners with Marcus Agrippa, who was a much better general than him, but Octavian again, he was not a blunt man, he was not charismatic, he was not a great general, but he believed himself to be the Heer to Julius Caesar. For whatever reason, Julius Caesar believed in him, and therefore he had a responsibility to finish the legacy of his father, okay, which is to restore the Roman public. And that meant here to do whatever sacrifice was necessary in order to do so. Okay, so the difference between Octavian and the others was he acted. He wasn't very successful, but he was willing to act, whereas Marcus Brutus was not willing to act. And when you act, sometimes you will succeed, okay, and only a few successes will allow you to become the emperor of Rome. It was, it was driven by the fact that he believed himself to be the hero of Julius Caesar. He was the son of Julius Caesar. Julius Caesar believed in him, therefore, he has a responsibility to restore the Republic, and that's why he trusted Marcus Agrippa, and that's why Marcus Agrippa trusted him. They were all fighting for the legacy of Julius Caesar, and that's why ultimately, the Roman people allowed Octavian to amass so much power. So remember, their own people have been taught to fear kings. But over time, Octavian was in power for 40 years, okay, Augustus Caesar was in power for 40 years. Over time, he became more powerful than a king. This is what he did. He amassed all powers to himself. After he completed Egypt, he made Egypt into his own personal property. This was his private estate. He used all the money from Egypt. And again, remember, Egypt is right now and for the longest time, the wealthiest country in the world at this time, okay, they have so much wealth. He uses money in order to have his own army. Before the Roman army was loyal to the Senate. Now, because it was Octavius himself who personally paid every soldier in the army. Which is now in a professional army. They're now loyal to the Emperor. Okay? He took Gaul, which was, you know, which was land that Judy Caesar basically depopulated with genocide, and he gave the land to his veterans. Okay, so, basically, he made the entire army loyal to him personally. So he announced the power of God. The Roman people allowed him to do that because they believed that, like Octavian, sorry, like Julius Caesar, Octavian was driven by his sense of mission, his desire to save and restore the Roman Republic, but ultimately, because they believed in too much Augustus Caesar would destroy the Republic and concentrate all power in his hands. Okay, does that make sense? All right, any questions?

Unknown Speaker  40:58  
Yeah, well,

Prof. Jiang  41:06  
okay, that's a great question. Okay, so why did Julius Caesar name Octavian as in here in that Mark Anthony? Okay, so Octavian is the great nephew of Julius Caesar. So Octavian was Julius Caesar's sister's grandson, okay, and so Octavian basically grew up with Julius Caesar like they knew each other very well. But as echo says, Mark Anthony is the man was most loyal to Caesar, okay, the most trusted lieutenant of Caesar. Why didn't Caesar trust him? And the answer is, Caesar as a genius. He doesn't care about loyalty. He cares about talent. He cares about ability. And Mark Anthony was a notorious hot head. He had a violent temper. He was a drunk, okay? I mean, he just had, like, terrible, terrible personal qualities. So an example of this is while Caesar was off campaigning against Pompey, he put Mark Anthony in charge of Rome, and all Mark Anthony did was piss everyone off. He got in a fight with the Senate. He was so bad that that Caesar had no choice but to replace him with Lepidus. Okay, so Mark Anthony was employed his hot head. He was emotionally unstable. He was emotionally volatile, and so Caesar. Caesar didn't really trust him, even though Mark Anthony would give his life for Caesar. Does that make sense? So Octavian was considered much more competent, much more level headed, and Caesar was correct in his assessment, because Octavian was a brilliant political manipulator. Okay, being an emperor is very hard. He was Emperor for 40 years, so he had to balance all these different political factions within Rome. Okay, so great question echo, okay, any more questions or comments about this argument

Speaker 1  43:16  
is all clear, sure give you a great the you're talking about how taboo would be to kill someone in the

Prof. Jiang  43:30  
Senate. Yes, right, that's right. And

Unknown Speaker  44:04  
yep, you start thinking about those assassinations differently, that like just how, how taboo it would have been, like how you were going against

Prof. Jiang  44:18  
every single That's right, I A

Prof. Jiang  44:27  
That's right, yeah, I mean, it's, it was very hard to kill Caesar. Okay, so they're in the Senate. There were 60 conspirators. Okay, they all bought knives. They were, they hit the knives, the daggers in the toga. Okay, they're all supposed to, like lunch Caesar, together. So, but when you but only five senators, only five senators actually physically attacked Caesar, everyone else just stood paralysed because, as you, as you said, it was taboo. It was the ultimate taboo to commit violence in the Senate. So they're all paralysed by this fear, even though they had this intense hatred. Caesar. Okay, they had for months imagine how they would go about killing Caesar. Okay. They had planners. They had they had this plan meticulously, but when it came to actually acting it out, they couldn't do it. Only five actually managed to take out their stab Caesar. In fact, the first person who attacked Caesar stood behind Caesar while Caesar was making talking the Senate, and he was shaking, okay, and he only managed to, like, pinprick Caesar in the back that this is where we get the idea of backstabbing from. So and it. And Caesar didn't really notice. He was like, Hey, what are you doing? Man, okay, Caesar wasn't really hurt by this. Even Caesar, even though he was being attacked, could not imagine that anyone would be so bold enough to break all these taboos and attack him. Okay? So, I mean, it was a it was incredible act that forever changed Roman history. All right? It was, it was just unimaginable that anyone could attack anyone in the Senate, like physically Okay, especially the dictator, the Julius Caesar, who was considered divine and sacred by the Roman people. Okay? So it was an incredible act of violence, okay? And the only five people actually participated in attacking him. And it took a very long time, because it was so hard to muscle the strength to stop Caesar. And again, all these senators are like soldiers, okay? They're fiscally very strong. They're general so used to killing people. So it wasn't fear of death, which is fear of bringing this ultra taboo of this Roman Senate. Okay, so thanks for that, Doug. Any more questions before I finish? Okay, so Octavian. Augustus Caesar was considered the first and the greatest emperor of the Roman Empire, and like Julius Caesar him, he did not consider himself the Emperor. He considered himself like first citizen, okay, or the first man in the Senate, and his responsibility was to ensure the eternal prosperity and stability of the Roman Republic. And so towards, towards his old age, he had to consider the public sorry. He had to consider the public problem of secession, right? He was a great emperor, but the second emperor had to be, had to be great as well. And so his solution was this. His solution would be, he would adopt the most competent relative that he had to be emperor, and he would create this new system where emperors would be adopted. Okay, so the best man in Rome would always be adopted into the Imperial throne. And Augustus Caesar had the perfect man. His name was Germanicus. Germanicus was very much like Julius Caesar, brilliant speaker loved by his soldiers. The problem was that he was too young, okay, Jamaica was too young, so he needed a transition. And so he appointed his stepson, Tiberius, who was pretty old at this point, okay, to be the transition. Tiberius was not charismatic, he was not very popular, but he was competent. He was competent. He was a competent, competent administrator. He'd be emperor for like, five to 10 years, and then when Germanicus was came of age, then Germanicus would inherit the throne, and he'd be a good emperor. And as a good emperor, you would then you would then be able to find someone else who had who had good talent, and you would appoint him the next emperor. If you had this system, this system could go on forever, right? And so this is a burnt system. The problem was Tiberius. Okay, Tiberius didn't like the idea that he could not appoint his successor. Okay, so what did he do? Well, he killed Germanicus. But not only did he kill Germanicus, he killed basically all of Germanicus family, okay? And not only did he kill Germanicus family, but he killed well, he killed a lot of people, okay? And then he adopted someone named Caligula, who was Jamaica's youngest son to be the Emperor, and calegula was a notoriously bad emperor. Okay, so this isn't broke down very quickly. You. Even though Augustus Caesar, his intention was to continue the legacy of Julius Caesar and create an eternal prosperity for the Roman Republic. And by the time you got to Tiberius, the system collapsed, and you could make the argument that Tiberius marked the death of the Roman Empire. Okay, the Roman Empire will continue for another like 300 years, but it's basically dead, okay, meaning that it was wracked by all these internal revolt, internal tensions, and it was only because of its size and inertia that was able to continue for so long. Okay. So we will next class. We'll finish Rome by discussing the Roman legacy. Okay, what is Rome's contribution to Western civilization? And this will mainly have to do with the legacy of Augustus, Caesar. Any questions?

Prof. Jiang  51:09  
Okay, all right, great. So we will continue. We'll finish with Rome, next class, and then we'll start Egypt. Okay, and Egypt will be a lot of fun. You.

