Prof. Jiang  0:00  
Okay, so today we will finish the Greeks by discussing Aristotle. And a lot of what I will say today will be controversial. Okay, so feel free to challenge me. Feel free to ask for clarification. Feel free to ask any questions. Okay, so here's my argument. Aristotle is a paradox. He is one of the mysterious figures in world history. He's one of the most famous, but he's one of the most mysterious. He's a paradox for three reasons. Okay, the first reason is he is considered to be one of the greatest philosophers in human history. He's next to Plato. He's certainly as influential as Plato. But what is unique about him is we do not have anything originally written by him. Okay, we have no text that we believe was personally written by him and that's unique in human history. Okay, we say Shakespeare was a great writer, and we can prove it or show it by reading his text. We believe Aristotle is a great thinker, a great writer, but we have no evidence, no text to show us. This is the case. We will but we believe so. Okay, so this is the first paradox of Aristotle. Second paradox of Aristotle is he was a very prolific writer and thinker. In fact, we believe he there's about 200 works attributed to Aristotle. What is unique about his work is the range of his thinking and his research. So he's written a book on politics, right? What is the best political system? He's written a book on poetics, theatre, basically what makes for a good tragedy. He's written a book on ethics, what is a good life, what makes a good person? He's written a book on rhetoric, how do you convince the audience that you are correct? He's also written books on physics, he's written books on metaphysics, he's written books on biology, okay, it's the range is just incredible. We have no analogue in human history like him. Okay? He's completely unique in the range of his curiosity. Second paradox, the third paradox is most problematic. We know that Aristotle studied under Plato for 20 years, and so we also believe that Aristotle was Plato's most famous student. The paradox is Aristotle's understanding of the universe is radically opposed to Plato's understanding of the universe. Okay, and that's, again, is unique in human history. You would think the best students would carry on the master's work, or at least build on it, right? But Aristotle, his understanding of the universe, is in conflict with Plato's work. In fact, you could also argue that Aristotle is negating Plato's worldview. Okay, so let me explain how. So we know Plato. We know that for Plato, there is a God, and it's called the form of the good. And the form of the good is what is eternal, perfect and immutable. Okay, now the form the good emanates other perfections, okay, what he calls the form of the ideal, okay, so these are concepts like justice and beauty and reason, and then these concepts manifest themselves in forms, like horse, right? Or a woman, okay? And these are, like the ideal, perfect, immutable, eternal manifestations, okay, so there's only one horse, it's up in heaven. Everything else is a copy of this horse or imitation of this horse. Okay? So we live in a shadow realm, a shadow realm where everything is imitation, okay, this is our reality. It's a shadow reality, and that's why art and poetry and theatre are. So bad, because they are really an imitation of an imitation. Okay, so this is Plato's hierarchy. So from this hierarchy and this worldview, we can make certain extrapolations. Okay, the first extrapolation is for Plato, what is good is if you approach or return to the form of the good. What is evil? What is bad is if you move away from the form of the good. Okay, right, so poetry is evil. Mathematics is good. Now, why is mathematics good? Because mathematics is what allows you to approach the form of the good All right, so let me give an example of this. Okay, let's say there's a circle right. Now, what Plato argues is, no matter how hard you try, you could never, ever draw a circle in this world, okay? Because a circle has an edge. So it's like little impossible for you to create something without an edge, right? You're like, well, I can draw on a computer, but if you go at a microscopic level, you will always find an edge. Okay, so how do you create a circle? Well, you create a circle by imagining it in your head. Okay, so, like, what you're really doing is you're imagining a circle because you're accessing the realm of the forms you're approaching from the good. Okay, so it's only pure It is only through a process of pure thought, pure philosophy, pure mathematics, that you can actually start to understand this world. All right, that's Plato's understanding of the world. Aristotle has a completely different understanding. Okay, so Aristotle starts with this, that God's a prime mover. So the prime mover, just imagine the Big Bang, right? Something explodes, boom, it moves, and it forces other things to move as well. So what Aristotle is saying is everything is really in motion, okay? Everything is change, because it was all caused by the prime mover. And in Plato and sorry, in Aristotle's world, what is good is if the thing that changes moves towards its purpose, okay? Or the word he uses is called telos. Telos, okay? If you're moving towards your purpose, you're doing good in this world. If you're moving away from your purpose, you're doing bad in this world, okay. So the example is a soldier. The purpose of a soldier is to fight and win wars. So if you go fight and you do your best, you're doing good, but if you run away from a war, you're doing bad. Okay, so this is Aristotle's worldview, and as you can understand, as you can see, these two worldviews cannot harmonise. They are in conflict with each other. You have either one or the other, okay, so let me highlight the three major differences between these two worldviews, okay. And again, I need to emphasise this. I am not an expert on Aristotle. I'm not expert on Plato, okay, so I am committing oversimplifications. Scholars, who are experts, will hear this and be outraged, okay, but for the purpose of this class, I feel these oversimplifications provide clarity. Okay, all right, so the first oversimplification is Plato's what we call a rationalist. Aristotle is what we call an empiricist. All right, so these are two big words, but the rationalist is someone who believes that you can access the truth through pure thought, Okay? Mathematics. An empiricist is someone who believes you can only access the truth through observation and what we call induction, okay, inductive logic. All right. So if I see a woman wearing a dress and I see another woman wearing a dress and a third, I'm like, Okay, well, from this I can

Prof. Jiang  9:42  
logically deduce or induce that all women wear dresses, and that's what separates women from men. Okay, so for Aristotle to seek the truth, you have to observe and you have to induce, okay, so that's the first major difference. Second major. Difference is Plato is what we call a dualist, and Aristotle is what called materialist. A dualist is someone who believes that there's a body and a soul, okay? And if you believe there's a body and soul, you also believe the soul is more important, because the soul is eternal, whereas the body will decay and die. Aristotle, he's materialist. So for him, the focus is on the body and what happens to the body. There may be a soul, there may not be a soul. He doesn't really care for him. It doesn't really matter. What matters is what happens to the body. The third major difference is Plato believes in the idea of immutability, okay, or what we call eternity, for Aristotle, almost nothing is immutable. Most things are mutable. Okay, the only thing that's really immutable is really God, but everything else is mutable. It will change over time. And so for Aristotle, the concept is infinity. Things will always change. Things will always move. There's no stopping movement, okay? But for Plato, things are eternal. There's there's a grand design, and nothing that changes really matters. It doesn't really affect the grand design. So for him, it's eternity. So these are the three major differences between Plato and Aristotle. Now what's really interesting for us is this conflict between Plato and Aristotle is what will inform the philosophical debate for all Western civilization, okay? So there are two major camps in Western philosophy. There is the rationalist camp, all right, so people like Descartes, and then there are there in Paris's Okay, so people like David Hume, all right, and for most of Western history, philosophers will go back and forth between these two extremes, okay, either platonic ideal or the historical Aristotle reality. Okay. Does that make sense? All right? Is this clear? Any questions? Sure, go ahead. So for Plato

Speaker 1  12:18  
and the forms of the good, yeah. So him, that's not abstract, like that's something that's real. It's not an imaginary thought experiment, or to him, that that eternity is as real as, maybe even more

Prof. Jiang  12:35  
real, yeah? So that's a great question. And for Plato, okay, what we like our lives, the reality we live in is not real. It's ephemeral, whereas the form of the good that's what's concrete, that's what's eternal. Okay, so, I mean, like, I understand that's counterintuitive to us, but the reason why it's kind of counterintuitive to us is because we're mainly influenced by Aristotle, right? We live we are materialists, right? Science is materialistic, but back then, and I would say back then, in Plato's time and for most of human history, it was assumed that our world was transitory, or transient or ephemeral, okay? And it was a spirit world, okay? That was real and that was eternal. Does that make sense? Okay? Again, this is oversimplification, okay? Like, if you go to a scholar who understands itself, I will probably you'll probably criticise me, okay, but I'm saying that for the purpose of this class and for our understanding of Western civilization, this will do, okay, just understand there's a major conflict between clear and Aristotle. This will go on for 1000s of years, and this will inform the debate in western civilization. Okay, this is the fundamental debate in Western philosophy. All right, so let's go back to Let's summarise where we are. Aristotle is a paradox, right? We have nothing that he wrote originally. The range of his work is just incredible. It's unique in human history. And then lastly, even though we know Aristotle's under Plato for like, 20 years at least, Aristotle came up with a very different conceptualization of the universe. In fact, it is in direct conflict with Plato's understanding. Okay, so how is this possible? How are these paradox? How can we resolve these paradoxes? Okay, so I'm going to make an argument, and I will slowly make this argument, but it is a controversial argument. Okay, my argument is that Aristotle was not a philosopher, he was not a thinker, he was not a writer. What he was ultimately, is what I refer to as. As a sensor, sensor. You can also use words like synthesiser, okay, or editor or systemizer, okay, but basically nothing that he thought was original to him, but he decided what would be political convenient for the moment. Okay, that's what we mean by sensor. And it's my argument that we understand Aristotle is a sensor. Then these three paradoxes go away. We can explain away these paradoxes, all right, so let me make my argument okay, my first, my first piece of evidence is we need to compare contrast the life of flip a second mass mod and Aristotle. When you do that, okay, when you put their life side by side, interesting parallels emerge. Okay, so let's look at their lives. Very simple. Aristotle, he was born in year 384, Philip the Second, was born in year 383, that's about the same age right now. Phil the second, he's a prince of Maslow. His father is the king, right? Aristotle, his father was the court physician to the king. He was the king's personal doctor, right? So from these two pieces of information, what can we guess about Philip and Aristotle? They grew up together, right? Does that make sense? Aristotle's father was the personal daughter the king. Philip was the son of the king. It would make sense they grew up together. It makes sense to be educated together, all right. Second thing that's interesting is from 367 to three, 348, okay, Aristotle went to Athens to study in Plato. Now, around the same time, okay, in the year 369, to 365 Philip went to Thebes to study military innovation under the best generals in Greece. All right, and here I would extrapolate and say the teenagers, they're going to further their education, right, and learn the best scientific and military innovations in order to bring back to mastodon. And this happens all the time, right? In the 1980s China sent its best and brightest to America to study science. Okay? So we can also surmise that even while they were away, they were still in contact with each other. Now, in 359 Philip became regent, or basically, King, and from then on, he started this massive military campaign to conquer all of Greece. Now one thing that was interesting about Philip's conquest of Greece was at the Athenians didn't really oppose him, okay? And this is one of the great mysteries historians struggle with. Why is it that Philip, the second he's going around. He's conquering all these places that are in conflict with Athens. And Athens doesn't really resist, all right? And one possible theory is, well, Philip the Second just bribed all these Athenian aristocrats. In fact, the man who most opposed Philip this Athenian statesman named Demosthenes. He actually said this in speeches. He said, Listen, I'm telling you, right now, Philip tried to bribe me. Okay? And I know Philip's bribing all my opponents, but I'm telling you, Athenians, Philip is a menace to democracy, and that's why we must oppose him, all right? So we can surmise that Philip was bribing these Athenians to support him, and that's why there's so little Athenian resistance to Philip. If that's the case, then who's the middleman? Who's the person who's in contact with these Athenian aristocrats? Aristotle? Right? Why? Because, remember, Aristotle was at the Academy for 20 years. The Academy in Athens at that time is like Harvard Oxford today, right? It's where all the rich and powerful go to study. So for 20 years, Aristotle was in contact and became friends with the most powerful individuals in Athens, and that's why, when Philip needed to negotiate with Athenians, it would make the most sense to send Aristotle. Does that make sense? And then we know that Philip united. Greece in 338 and then 335 three years later, Aristotle started a new school in Athens in competition with the academy called the lyceum. Okay, so what is the purpose of the lyceum? Okay, so that's what I will discuss next. But does that make sense? There are direct parallels between the lives of Aristotle and Philip, and we can guess or extrapolate or deduce that Aristotle and Philip were very close throughout their lives and helping, and they were helping each other, okay? And that makes sense, okay. So now the question then is, why was Philip going around, conquering off Greece? Well, Philip had a vision for the world, and it's called something called, what we call the pan Hellenic project. Okay, so pan Hellenic project, okay, so at this time and throughout most of its history, Greece was divided into city states all around the world, okay, mainly in mainland Greece, but also across the Aegean in Asia, minor in Asia, minor Anatolia, okay, across all these different islands and into North Africa and across the Adriatic also into Italy as well. Okay, so you have this sprawling Greek world, and there are many who believe that this Greek world should unite together because there's a common ancestry, all right, so it's a dream of many philosophers that a great man of history would arise and unite all of Greece by basically defeating Persia and Philip the Second said, Hey, that's a great idea, and it should be me okay. But the problem is the pandemic project assumes a common Greek identity, and it didn't really exist at that time. In fact, Greeks probably had more common with their local cultures than with each other, right? So if you were Greek living in Asia Minor you were probably more Persian than you were Greek. So in other words, Philip needed someone, a sensor, basically, to create a Greek identity, right?

Prof. Jiang  22:31  
And the way you do that is by taking all this vast universe of knowledge that the Greeks created, right, and you create an encyclopaedia or a series of textbooks that define what it means to be Greek, right? You standardise and you systemize Greek knowledge. Does that make sense? And so that's probably what Aristotle was doing when he started the Lyceum, he had lots of students. Okay, yeah, so throughout history, all conference did this okay, because that was the only because, by standardising and systemizing knowledge was the best way for you to co op elite, the elite and to showcase your legitimacy, okay? Otherwise, the intellectual elite would think of you as a barbarian, conqueror, all right? And the way the best way that you Co Op the intellectual elite is by showcasing a new systematic knowledge. Okay, does that make sense? All right, so. The problem is that in 336 Philip was assassinated, and his son Alexander came to a throne, came to the throne, and as we discussed last class, Alexander had a very different vision from his father. His father wants to unite the Greek world. Alexander wanted to conquer the entire world to show he was superior to his father, okay, and unbelievably, incredibly, he was able to do so, conquer most of the world in about 10 years time. So now suddenly you have this sprawling empire all around the world. Okay, so let's, let's, let's just sketch out how vast this new empire was. Okay, so you have, you know Greece and Macedon, right? Okay, so that's the Greek homeland. Thank you. That's a Greek homeland, right? But hey, over here you have Anatolia. This is Mesopotamia over. Here is Afghanistan. Oh, sorry, sorry, it's it should be Iran. Sorry, Iran, Afghanistan. And then you also reach as far as Pakistan, okay? And down here you have the Levant and you have Egypt, all right, this was not supposed to happen, Philip and the pandemic project, imagine like their conquest would extend up to around here. Okay, because you're United Greek world. Alexander went too far, and now you're you've conquered most of the known world. Okay, then Alexander died, and then the Empire was divided into three major fragments. Over here you have something called the intagonid Empire, okay, the integonite dynasty. Okay, so that's one piece of the Empire. Down here you have Ptolemy. Okay, Ptolemy was one of absenters generals, and he took over Egypt. And over here you have something called the Seleucid Empire, founded, of course, by the general Seleucus, okay. And over here you have other smaller kingdoms as well. So you have this vast empire. And this is something that was unplanned and unexpected. Now that you conquer these places, your concern or your problem is, how do we govern? Okay, so you need a new culture. And so these different generals adopted different strategies. So for example, here, the Persian culture is extremely well established, and the Seleucid king and his hearers decided a process of localization, okay? Or another word we can use is synchronisation. Synchronisation meaning two different religions or two different cultures come together and coalesce together, okay, so throughout the Seleucid Empire, it was really a process of synchronisation. The Greeks adapted themselves to local customs and to local culture. At the same time, the Greeks were conquerors, so they still needed to maintain a coherent identity. So it made sense for them to adopt a lot of Aristotle's work, because, remember, Aristotle was creating the pan Hellenic identity, and so he basically created a lot of textbooks. He basically created an encyclopaedia. So it made sense for them to import Aristotle's works. Also, what's important is, remember, Aristotle was Macedonian, and for the longest time, Greeks did not consider Macedonians to be Greek. This is why it's called the pan Hellenic project. That's like the pan Greek project. Also, Greeks were very condescending towards Macedonians, because they saw Macedonians as barbarians. So it was in the best interest of these new Macedonian conquerors to exaggerate or to highlight the intellectual contributions of Aristotle. Does that make sense? Right? Ptolemy, Egypt was very different, okay? Egyptian culture has been around for 1000s of years, and Egyptians are very proud of their culture. And this is a problem because you're very proud of your local culture. You don't like foreign rulers, and this is something that the Persian Empire struggled with throughout the centuries that it dominated Egypt. Okay? The Persians were famous for their openness and tolerance. Basically, you were allowed to practice your own religion, and they're very supportive of that, okay, the most famous example are the Jews, right? Who the person who supported in rebuilding the Second Temple? We'll get to the Jews later on. But because the Persians were so supportive of local culture in Egypt, the Egyptians rebelled against Persia many, many times. So Ptolemy and his hearers didn't want to make the same mistake. Okay? They wanted to impose a new culture on the Egyptians in order to show that they were superior and therefore more divine than Egyptians. Okay, so Ptolemy, he did many things that started this process. The first thing that he did was he stole axe in his body to. Babylon, where he died, and brought it back to Egypt. Okay? Because Egyptians saw Alexander as a God, as a son of a God, right? So to establish legitimacy in Egypt, Ptolemy went on a military expedition and stole the body of exander, which started something called The War of the thiocai, okay, basically, the successor wars. That's the first thing he did. Something that he did was he established a new capital in Alexandria, called Alexandria, okay, so this was mainly a Greek city. It was a new Greek city, followed by Alexander. And this is where they house Alexander's body. The third thing that he did was he start to to sponsor something called, we call the today, the museum. Okay, the museum is the root of the of the English word museum, but the museum was really the world's first research university. So Ptolemy and his hearers brought together the greatest Greek scholars in the world to basically continue the work of Aristotle to standardise and systemize Greek culture so that they can impose it on the local Egyptian culture. Does that make sense? All right, and the most famous aspect of the museum is the library of ex Andrea and the autonomy spent a lot of money

Prof. Jiang  31:45  
on the Library of exandria, mainly by going around and collecting original manuscripts. All right, so a representative went to Athens and said, We at the Library of exandria, would like the original copies, the original manuscripts for ischylus, Sophocles and eoprides, the three great playwrights. And the Athenians are like, we can't do that because they're like, Gods here, okay, we're not going to give you our original manuscripts. And the Egyptians said, all we're going to do is we're going to take these manuscripts back to the library, back to Andrea, where our scribes will copy them out, okay, oh, that's all we're gonna do, and then we'll give it back to you. And as a guarantee, we're gonna give you, like, 15 talents of silver, okay? And then that's like a billion dollars. Back then, the Athenians have never seen so much money. So Athenians will say, Well, okay, well, if it's just to spread great culture, we can actually deal with that. Okay, so we'll take the deposit of 15 talents and we'll give you the manuscripts. The Egyptians took the manuscripts, placed it in the Library of Alexandria, and said, Hey, Athenians, keep the money. Okay, because the Egyptians under Ptolemy were focused on turning the Library of Alexandria and Alexandria into the intellectual capital of the Greek world. All right. And so what happened was that after Alexander died and his generals took over, the pan Hellenic project really became what we call the pan Hellenistic project, okay, it went from uniting the Greek world into spreading Greek culture all around the world, and that's why we have Greek culture still with us today, okay, because of this process. So let's go back to the original paradox. All right? Why? There are three paradoxes, right? The first paradox is, why do we have nothing original from Aristotle? The answer is, because Aristotle didn't write anything original. He stole everything from other thinkers, and he had his students copy it out in manuscript form. It doesn't make sense. Second is, why is his Why are his works so diverse? Why is the range so great? And the answer is, because he was trying to capture the essence of Greek knowledge. Okay? He was trying to unify Greek knowledge into an encyclopaedia for dissemination around the world. Okay. The third thing is, okay. Most interesting thing is, why is Aristotle's philosophy so different from Plato's worldview? Okay, that's, that's, that's a really interesting question, why? Why are they so different? So let's switch our perspective and ask ourselves, if you were king of Mastodon, if you're Philip Alexander, what's your problem with Plato's philosophy? You have a problem. What is it? Any guesses? I.

Prof. Jiang  35:06  
Your ex, I know you're Philip. You really hate Plato. Why?

Unknown Speaker  35:15  
Why?

Prof. Jiang  35:22  
Well, the problem with Plato is, you go to Plato, you're Alexander. You go to Plato says, I want to conquer the world, right? Plato would say, what's the point? It's all not real, Alexander, you're just wasting your time. You can conquer the world, but all you're doing is conquer a shadow. What's real is the form of the good, right? Alexander, study mathematics. Man, okay, do more math. Stop going around and killing people. Do more math, right? And we know what Alexander would do here, right? Alexander would probably cut off Plato's head. So Azmain Phil hate this thing, right? This thing is abiotic. I want to conquer the world, but this philosophy is telling me it's pointless. What matters is mathematics. What matters is philosophy. All right. Now, let's now compare this with Aristotle's prime mover theory, right? What Aristotle is saying is everything is motion, and what is good is if you fulfil your purpose. Right? Now, if you're Alexander, Philip, this makes more sense. I'm Philip. My purpose is to unite the Greek world, and the more I unite, the more good I'm doing for this world, right? Also, if you're a king, you want your citizens, your soldiers, your workers, to work hard, right? Well, for Plato, working hard is just useless. You're imitating an imitation, right? When you, when you create art. But here, working hard is what gives you purpose. It was, it's what gives you happiness. Okay? So Aristotle also promoted two major concepts. The first is irritate. Second is eudaimonia. Erte is just excellence. Your Alexander has airtight. He is an excellent general. When you have irritate and you are achieving your purpose, then you achieve eudaimonia, which is just flourishing or happiness. And that's the purpose of life, to have irritate and to achieve EULA pneumonia. So work hard. Fight for exander. Support him as he conquers the world, because he's making the world better. Does that make sense? Do

Prof. Jiang  38:31  
Okay, that's a great question. Yeah, thanks, Doug. Okay, all right, so the question then is, if I'm a soldier and I'm and I'm, you know, working hard and winning battles, am I not approaching from the good? And the answer is, for Plato, it's not. The reason why is whatever you do in this material world is pointless, okay? This is a material world. It's not real. So whatever you do is not real. Does that make sense? Okay? So what you need to do is return to the form of the good. But your body can't do that. Your soul can do that. So your use of the body is pointless. You have to use your soul. You have to use your mind, all right, therefore you have to be a good person, therefore you have to engage in philosophy and mathematics, and that's how you return to the form of the good. You're used to the body. It's just, you're just in a you're just deluding yourself, okay, right? And if you engage in art, then you are deluding others, and that's more evil. If you're Alexander, you're conquering others and forcing them to believe your fake philosophy, then you're committing the most evil in the world. Does that make sense? All right. All right. So, um, yeah, all right. So this is what I this is my theory of how to be. Us resolve the three paradoxes of paradoxes of Aristotle. Okay, does that make sense? He was basically a censor who was working for Philip and Alexander, and he was trying to develop a pan Hellenistic identity in order to unite the world they conquered. So that's my argument. Any questions about this overall argument. Does it make sense to you guys? Okay, go ahead. Yeah, thank you. All right, go ahead. So one of the questions is, how do we know that's a good question? Yeah, okay, all right. So how do we know he didn't write any of his works? Okay? The answer is this, when you write something, you actually manifesting your thought, right? But your thought comes from your personality. So if you look at any work of genius, it's original and unique. Does that make sense? In other words, if you read Shakespeare, guess what? There's no other Shakespeare in the world. If you're trying to imitate Shakespeare, you look like an idiot. Homer is unique. Plato is unique. There's no point in trying to imitate them. You can't do it because you are not dumb. Okay? Now you look at Aristotle, there's something unique about Aristotle. So you know, when you read Plato the Republic, there are certain ideas that send out like Ali go the cave. Okay? There's certain phrases that capture your imagination that doesn't exist with Aristotle's text. They're really like textbooks. So the argument for longest time was Aristotle did write his own books, but they were lost to us, and his students had to reassemble his thinking from their own memory. Okay, so, yeah, that's how we know but, but this is generally agreed upon. We have nothing that Aristotle wrote originally. Okay, so maybe

Speaker 1  42:20  
and they could have been co opted by forces outside of Aristotle's personal control.

Unknown Speaker  42:24  
That's right, is that as much of a valid

Prof. Jiang  42:30  
theory project himself? Yep. Okay, so thank you, Doug. Okay, yeah. So there are many different possibilities of how Aristotle can become so influential, okay, the first possibility is, as as I as I argue, he was actually a partner of Phillips that they were both trying to promote the pan Hellenic project. Okay, that's the first possibility. But another possibility is, as Doug says, he was just a philosopher. He was student of Plato's. He was very smart, and he was a very good teacher. And after Alexander, his generals conquered the world, they needed like a symbol of Macedonian cultural superiority. And they just decided upon Aristotle because it was most convenient, right? So that's another possibility, okay, just from the chart there about

Unknown Speaker  43:29  
Aristotle's biography, one thing that kind of stands up to me

Speaker 1  43:35  
projecting too much onto his dad, but his dad was a physician, right? A doctor, right? That's right, that's your approach to the world. You are going

Unknown Speaker  43:47  
to be much more materials looking what's wrong with my body. Plato's not going to be any health work, right?

Unknown Speaker  44:09  
It Up The

Prof. Jiang  44:23  
Yep, exactly. So, yeah. So it is entirely possible that Aristotle was a materialist, because that was just his personality, right? The influence from his father, who was a physician, okay, but that creates another problem, which is, if you are so opposed to Plato's understanding of the world, right? Because you're materialist and he's a dualist. Why were you studying under Plato for 20 years? Does that? Does that make sense? So that creates another problem, all right, so another thing I want to point out is, okay, I. How we have Aristotle's works today. There are three different possibilities. Okay, the first possibility is that Aristotle, in his lifetime, he organised his students and created this encyclopaedia. Okay, it's so different from philosophy, from professors at universities today, right? Professors, who are scientists, they actually do very little of the original research that the students do it, but they want to supervise the entire process. Okay, so it's possible. That's the first possibility, Aristotle was supervising the work of creating a Greek identity. The second possibility is, after Aristotle died, his students start to remember, recall his lectures, and that's why so much of his work is flagrantured. Okay? We don't have complete manuscripts. And the third possibility, okay, and it's entirely possible, is Aristotle is a fiction created by scholars at the Library of ex Andrea. Okay, so it's really the scholars at the Library of ex Andrea who created Aristotle, and they did so by synthesising all this work, and then they they gave it to they accredited to attribute it to Aristotle in order to create the legend of This philosopher. Okay, does that make sense? Okay. So let's have an argument about confusion. Let's get some more Confucius. Okay, but I want to very quickly talk about the Greek legacy, because even though we can argue back and forth about Aristotle and its Providence, what is not debatable is the profound influence that Aristotle had on the world. Okay, we can argue if Aristotle's Aristotle was the original writer or the original thinker. Well, what is not debatable is the tremendous influence he had on the entire world. Okay, so there are three aspects of the Greek legacy I want to discuss. The first aspect is the Greeks created a new way of being human. All right, so let's look at the major thinkers. You have Homer, you have the playwrights, Aeschylus, Sophocles and eubids, and then you have the philosophers like Plato and Aristotle. All right, so the Greeks created a new way of being human. What do I mean by that? Homer was an oral bar. He would get up in front of audiences, and he would for hours recite this beautiful poetry about the Trojan War The Iliad. Okay? And in the process, listen to Homer created empathy and imagination, right? Because the point of listening to Homer was to enter Homer's world and become Achilles or Odysseus. And through this process, you became a different person, and therefore you learn empathy, but you also expanded your imagination. Okay, so that's what Homer did for the Greeks. Then you have islays, Sophie's and eupedes. And what they did that was different, is rather than think directly at the audience, they had the characters face each other in a dialogue, in a debate, okay? And by doing this, what happens is you create the capacity for perspective and in a debate, right? Because before you were part of the story, now you have to step back and judge the story. Okay? You there's a debate going on. You have to switch perspectives in order to understand the characters, and this creates the capacity for an inner monologue in a debate in you, and then you have Plato and Aristotle. What Plato did that was unique was he took all the dialogue in the play and he transported it onto the page, but now you read it by yourself, and you have the benefit of time, okay? And so this creates a capacity for reason and reflection. Okay, you can sort of reason out if the words make sense to you, you are no longer influenced by the crowd or the emotions of the actor. You can just look at the words themselves and judge them on their own merit. You also have the capacity now to reflect meaning. You can go back to the words over and over the course of your lifetime to constantly reflect on their meaning and. Logic, okay, understand. So when you add these three things together, Homer create the capacity for empathy and imagination. The playwright create the capacity for inner debate and perspective. The philosophers create the capacity for reason and reflection, you now have a new human mind, okay? And when you study all of them, that's what we call, ultimately, a liberal arts education, all right? And guess what? Our greatest thinkers came to us through the Liberal Arts, All right, so in the future, we'll study people like Kant, Hume Hegel, okay, just the greatest thinkers of the past 20 years. They all what was common about them is they all read the Greeks, and that was just their education. All right, so this is the first legacy of the Greeks a new way of being and seeing,

Prof. Jiang  51:08  
okay? Does that make sense? Second thing is, now that you have this Greek world, okay, the Greeks need to establish a cohesive cultural identity. And they had, they did that by promoting a Greek education, okay, but not only that, but they had to bring in local people into this education. So one major function of the Library of Alexandria was to standardise and systemize Greek knowledge, and they did this by standardising the text. Okay, so they're different, different texts of Homer. The text of Homer that we have today was developed by the people at the Library of Alexandria. Okay, standardisation. They also did something called commentaries. So commentaries are basically like teacher handbooks. Okay? They teach you how to teach this stuff, and they create like footnotes and chapters and page numbers, codices, indexes, okay, so the point was to make Greek education available and accessible to anyone, all right? And what this means is we in China now can actually read Homer ischylus and Plato for ourselves, even though we are not culturally Greek. And that's the benefit of the pan Hellenistic project, all right. And the third major benefit is Greek knowledge meant a global revolution in innovation, okay? And what I mean by that is, remember, Greek knowledge is being spread around the world and interacting with powerful local cultures and through the process of synchronisation, new forms of knowledge are being created. Okay? So the Greeks spread the knowledge to India, and now it's acting with local Indian philosophy and religion, including new ideas, right? So the most famous synchronisation is the Levant Greek knowledge was being spread to the Jews. Okay? And so when you put the Greeks and the Jews together, you have a new idea that would forever revolutionise human history, and it's called Christianity, right? So Christianity would not have been possible if it were not for the work of Aristotle. All right? So those are the three major legacies of the Greeks. And so it is, I think it's perfectly fair to say the Greeks were the most influential and consequential civilization of all time. They're certainly the most creative. No other civilization even comes close to their creativity, right? Okay, so that's it. Any questions? Okay, so, okay, so we are finished with the Greeks next class. We start a new unit on Rome, Roman history. All right. So great. I'm.

