Prof. Jiang  0:00  
Okay, good morning. So let us do an overview of the history of the ancient Israelites. Okay, from about 1010, the year 1010, BCE, until 586, this is what is referred to as the First Temple period. So remember, the nation of Israel is created by King David, and it's the coalition of different tribes, different cultures, different religions, and what makes this nation possible are two things. The first thing is the charisma of David. The second is the tremendous literary power and genius of the yahwehs, the individual who wrote the first stories of the Bible, Adam and Eve the patriarchs, Moses, okay, and what centres or unifies this nation is the first temple in Jerusalem, remember to create centralised authority, David and Solomon, his son, Solomon, they build a temple where everyone has to come in order to make sacrifices to Yahweh. Okay, so the first temple is the house of Yahweh, all right. And at this point we can there are certain characteristics about this new religion or this new nation, okay, and again, I will have to oversimplify for the sake of clarity, okay, so the first thing I would say about this new religion is it's polytheistic. Okay? It aspires to a monotheism, but it's only aspirational, because the reality is, it's a multinational it's a multi cultural coalition, and people are going to believe what their fathers and their grandfathers believe. Okay, they may. And so people at this point have multiple faiths. And so the religion that we refer today as Judaism is only shared by the elite people, King David, his family and the priest and maybe other people in the elite. Second thing is it is a monarchy. And the third thing is this religion is an open, tolerant and optimistic religion, because remember the Bible, it's really the story of two people, Yahweh and David, forming an everlasting friendship that becomes the basis for the nation of Israel. Also remember that in the Yahweh understanding of Yahweh, Yahweh is a poet God. He's fallible, he's sensitive, but he means good. He's willing to grow and help the Israelites grow as well. And in this religion, to show faith to Yahweh, to show your devotion to Yahweh, you must argue with him. You must learn and go grow with him as well. Okay, so this is a very open, confident, generous and optimistic religion by the time we reach the second second temple period, okay? From 539 to 70 CE, 539 BC, to some CE, this is called the Second Temple period. Why? Because in 586 their temple is destroyed by the Babylonians. Okay, by the time we reach this period, the Israelites are no longer referred to as Israelites. They're referred to as Jews. And the Jewish people and the Israelites, they share the Bible, but in terms of culture and values, they're very different. So at this point, the Jewish people have become what we call Hino theistic native. Hinotheism is you believe there are gods, but your God is the best, okay, your God, Yahweh is superior to all gods. And all the gods are false idols. They are deceivers. Dollars. Second thing about the second, second, second temple period is it's very anti monarch, monarchy, okay? And so it focused on the priesthood and the idea of ritual, religious ritual.

Prof. Jiang  5:22  
So by the Second Temple period, the focus of power has shifted from the monarchy to the priesthood. And in a minute, I'll explain why there was this change. Okay? And the last thing for our purposes to understand about the culture is it's become extremely focused on purity, okay, you can also say it is focused on fanaticism. It's a very close and conservative culture. Now. They believe their culture is the best, and they believe it's important not to intermix with other cultures. So for example, Jewish women are explicit, explicitly forbidden to marry foreign men. Okay? And then, from a lot, 100 CE onwards, there's another transition to the religion, and the reason why is, remember, in the Second Temple period, religious worship is centred around the Second Temple, but in 70 CE, the Romans destroyed the temple and banished the Jews from Jerusalem. And so this makes massive changes to the religion after about 100 CE, that carries it to the present day. The first thing is it becomes fully monotheistic. They only believe there's only one God, and that's it. Second is because there's no more temple and you cannot no longer make any sacrifices to Yahweh. The centre of authority in this religion called Judaism are the rabbis. And rabbis means teachers. Okay, so the word for this period is called rabbinical Judaism.

Prof. Jiang  7:29  
In other words, the Bible becomes the centre of religious worship in Judaism, before it was a temple. Now it's the Bible. It's the rabbis who interpret for you what the Bible means. The last thing about this is the idea of diaspora. Diaspora just means they are now spread out all around the world. They are no longer in Jerusalem. They're spread out all around the world. And as such, you will have multiple strands of Judaism, because their religion now has to interface with local culture and local customs. So this is a very broad overview of 1000 years of a history of the development of Judaism, as you can see, there are these massive cultural changes about every 500 years. The reason why is the historical circumstance of the Israelites and the Jewish people change over time. Remember the Israel, the state, the nation of Israel, was founded as a historical accident. It was because of the Bronze Age collapse. Historically, the Levant was controlled by a superpower, either in Anatolia or in Egypt or Mesopotamia. But because of the Bronze Age collapse, the high tides and the Egyptians have to retreat from the Levant, which gives space for a localised empire to emerge, and that's Israel, but over time, because the Levant was so strategically important, empires start to take over the Levant as a staging post for an invasion of Egypt. Okay, so what would happen over time is the Assyrians and the Babylonians would come and conquer Israel, also, because the nation of Israel was multicultural and multilingual, it was only held together by the partial charisma of David. So when he died, it was very hard to hold the nation together. And when his son, someone died in 1931 BCE, the nation of Israel was divided into two kingdoms, something called the northern kingdom Israel and then Judah. The problem with this. Is the nation of Israel is centred around the religion, and the religion is centred around religious rituals in the temple. So in the temple was found in Jerusalem in Judah. So the people in northern kingdom had to make changes to religion, basically change the sites of religious worship.

Prof. Jiang  10:28  
In 586, the Babylonians came and destroyed Judah, and they burned the First Temple. And the policy of the Babylonians was to capture the elite and hold them hostage in Babylonia and then send in a foreign delegation to control the territory. And this is what is called the Babylonian captivity. And while the Israelites are there, they're trying to hold on to the memory of who they are. Okay, there are two memories that sustain them in this period. The first is the memory of the greatness of King David, how they were once a united monarchy under the leadership of David, okay, so that's they're very proud of that. That's what sustains them. The other thing that sustains them is the Bible, the stories of the of the yahwehs, okay, Adam and Eve, the patriarchs. And because they are so focused on these memories, and because these memories are written down, they specialise. The Israelites specialise in intellectual activities, okay, so in Babylon and then elsewhere, they become very successful. They become administrators, they become teachers, they become intellectuals, okay? And they, over this time, will also produce their own literature as a Diaspora people to sustain them and to unify them also at this time, what's important to understand is the identity as Israelite people becomes much more concrete and much more locked in before, when they were back in Judea in the Levant their identity was very fluid. It was very open, it was very dynamic. But now that they are part of the diaspora, they have left Jerusalem, their identity becomes much more concrete. And the analogy would be here in China, we use simplified Chinese. But guess what? When you go to overseas Chinese communities like diaspora, right in Southeast Asia, they all use traditional Chinese characters. They hold on to Chinese culture much more fanatically than in China. Does that make sense? Okay, so, a very concrete identity emerges during the Babylon captivity. Also, what's important is they need to if they are to survive as a people, they need to explain why this is happening to them during the Davidic kingdom, okay, they were at the height of their power, and the Bible was written at the time, and they believe that from now on, this kingdom of David will last forever, and that's what God promised. So why is it that the northern kingdom and Judah split, and why were they conquered by the Assyrians and then the Babylonians? And why have they lost their land that God promised to them? And the answer is, because they broke their covenant with Yahweh. Right? There's something called a covenant, a contract, if you, the Israelite people, are loyal to me, meaning you only worship me, then I Yahweh will protect you as my chosen people. So if Yahweh has abandoned us, it's because of three reasons. Okay, the first reason is because we start to worship foreign gods, okay, that's the first reason. Second reason is because we start to have kings, and our religion does not allow kings because the authority of Kings contradicts the authority of Yahweh, okay. And the third reason is because we broke the 10 Commandments, because we continue to sin as a people. And the people who argue this are called the prophets. Okay? So after the. First Temple period, even the Second Temple period, the Jewish people adopt a prophetic tradition, the belief that Jewish people must remain peer to their love of God if they are to survive as a people. Okay, okay, so they are in Babylon captivity for almost 70 years, and then the Persians conquered the Babylonians. The Persians Empire is really the first multinational empire in human history, and their ruler starts the great He is known for being an extremely open, tolerant and generous ruler. So he releases the Jews from Babylon and have them return to Judaism, where they will rebuild their temple, called the Second Temple. And this starts the beginning of the Second Temple period. And the Jews are so grateful that such the great is called the Messiah in their Bible. Messiah means the anointed one, the one chosen by God to save the Jewish people. And SARS the great is the only foreigner who is called Isaiah in the Bible. SARS the great sponsors both the building of the Second Temple as well as encourage the Jews to start the project that we now refer to as the Bible. Okay, and this was led by a priest named Ezra, who was part who was in Babylon, but he returned to Jerusalem to rejuvenate their religion and to start the Bible. Okay, so that's a very brief overview of the history of the first 1000 years of Judaism. Any questions so far? Are you guys clear about this? Okay, so what I will do now is I'm going to focus specifically on this period, okay, when Cyrus conquered Babylon and released the Jews to return to Jerusalem, because this marks a fundamental shift In the religion. At this point, what will happen is the merger of the Persian religion with Israelite religion, which creates a new religion. Okay? Now, the religion of the Persians is called Zoroastrianism, all right? And the merge of these religions will become the basis of a new religion that will come to dominate the world called Christianity. All right, okay. So to understand this history, I will have to first talk about the history of Mesopotamia, okay, so as we discussed in class, the history of Mesopotamia is one of violent struggle, because there are many violent people in this area, and this area is the centre of the world. Basically, it's where all the trade goes through. It's very wealthy. It's very multi ethnic and multinational. So conflict and violence arises all the time. Okay, so you have, over here, a place called Arabia. Arabia are Nomad, nomadic people. Okay, and over here you have something called the Zagros Mountains. Up here is Anatolia, which is also very wealthy. And over here are the two rivers, okay, the Euphrates and the Tigris. And the city states are built along the two rivers. The people the Domenic people in the desert of Arabia and the mountains of Zagros are opportunistic. Okay? They will trade with you, but they'll also raid you and steal from you, okay? They'll possibly be raiding and trading with these city states. What keeps them in check is these city states have walls, okay, as well. These city states will fight each other for dominance, okay? Because in Mesopotamia, the religion is people must fight for the honour and glory of their patron god. You. What keeps the city states from destroying each other is the belief that each city state

Prof. Jiang  20:09  
in each city state in a temple, lives a great God. So you can destroy the enemy's army in a battlefield, but you can't go and ransack the city and the temple, because that would incur the wrath of the god. Okay, so there are these religious taboos that keep the system in check. And so for centuries, they've been fighting each other and struggling against each other, and in this process of struggle, they will create many tremendous innovations that will forever change human history. For example, they create writing. They create many forms of knowledge, like mathematics and astronomy. Okay, so this is considered the cradle of civilization. This system broke down when a king named Luka zagazin Okay of a city state called uma okay. And uma is always at is always in conflict with a city state called like Ash and Lucas zagazin, he is so ambitious that he's willing to defy the gods. He decides this is stupid. I keep on attacking my enemy, but after retreat, after I win, because I'm afraid of offending their God, well, I'm going to test their god. I'm going to go into Lagash, destroy the temple, steal all their wealth so it can fund other military adventures and see if their god will seek revenge. Okay, so he's bringing, bringing the taboo. He's basically, it's basically like the equivalent of using a nuclear weapon today. Okay, so he goes to the gash and destroys the gash burns on the temple, steals all their wealth, and nothing happens. In fact, he becomes even more successful, and he goes around and starts slowly and slowly conquering the city states of Mesopotamia, of Sumer, and he's about to unite all the entire region. And now the city states are unified in their hatred of this person. He has defiled their temples. He has mocked their gods. This creates an opportunity for another warlord named Sargon of Akkad, and second arkad is to determine to destroy lugar zagei and restore the honour and glory of the gods of Mesopotamia. Why is he doing this? Because he himself has a legitimacy problem. He was a mercenary and he was part of a city state of Kish, okay, so, so he was supposed to be loyal to the King of Kish, but he was an extremely ambitious and charismatic soldier, so he did what David did, and he usurped the throne. And so now this creates a legitimacy problem, because remember, in this religion, kings are descended from the gods, so now you, by using the throne, have offended the gods. So Sargon, his name means legitimate King, by the way, okay, legitimate King, which tells us no one thought he was illegitimate, okay? He decides that he will create legitimacy by destroying lugazagasi. He does that. He destroys like lucasi, he captures him, parades him around, and then kills him to show that he is favoured by the gods. And by doing this, sorghum of Akkad unifies all of Mesopotamia, and he creates the first world empire, called the Akkadian Empire. But also by doing this, by creating the first empire, Sargon of Akkad will now unleash a cycle of violence, okay? And so over time, everyone will have will be forced to become more violent in order to maintain balance. It becomes an arms race of fear, terror and violence and empires rise and fall all the time. Okay? Again, the problem with this area is you have extremely aggressive nations, and there are no natural boundaries to protect you. So it's so even though it's very easy for you to build an empire, it's also very easy for you to lose the Empire. Okay? By. 600 BCE. There are three major powers in this region over here in Anatolia, our people call them the Lydian the Lydians, the Lydians. Over here in Mesopotamia, are people called the Babylonians. And over here, okay, are the medians and the these are three superpowers that check and balance each other out. They're powerful, but they're not powerful enough to destroy each other. Okay, around this time will emerge a new power centre called the Persians. They were led by a great king named Cyrus, the great okay. He is considered to be the greatest ruler in human history, Azmain the great saw him as a role model. When Azmain The great invaded Persia and he saw that the tomb of such the Great had been desecrated or abandoned, he was furious, and he stopped his campaign to make sure the tomb was renovated and returned to its former glory. If you go to Iran today, you can still visit the tomb of Cyrus the Great because throughout history, everyone had a higher opinion of him. Okay, even the Greeks thought he was fabulous. His own people, of course, loved him. So for the longest time, before exemplary Julius Caesar, he was considered the greatest ruler in human history. Okay, so, but the problem is, because we don't have access to writing the writing we have absolutely we know very little about him. Okay, here's what we do know about him. He was in charge. He was king of a local people called the Persians, who, of course, are descended from the yanaya, so they use horse archers in their warfare. Over time, he's able to conquer the medians. So King Croesus of the Lydians saw this as an opportunity to conquer the medians as well. So he attacks, but Cyrus the Great defeats him. Okay, so now Cyrus the Great is in charge of two empires. What he does next is revolutionary in Mesopotamia, instead of parading them around like the chapter kings around and executing them like Sargon of Akkad size, the great decides to make them advisors to his court. He shows mercy, he shows clemency, he shows forgiveness, and this shocks and awes the people of Mesopotamia. It shows Cyrus, the great is confident, is powerful, and is buried by the gods because he is willing to show mercy to his enemies. But knowing that what happens next is really interesting. The Babylonian Empire is the last empire in Mesopotamia. Okay, if such a great wants to unify Mesopotamia, he has to conquer the Babylonians. At this time, the Babylonians have an internal conflict. The King and the nobility aren't getting along. The king wants to change the official god of Babylon from monarch to sin, because the king wants to establish his own religious authority. So this creates tremendous conflict eternally in Babylon. And normally they would go to civil war. And normally, when they hear that Cyrus the Great has conquered the medians and the Lydians, then they would think they have to unify in order to defeat Cyrus the Great. But they hear that Cyrus the Great, he's merciful and he's generous and he's wise. So what they do is the nobility strikes a deal with Cicero great and science the great conquest, Babylonia, without doing anything. And in the official history of Cicero's the great he claims that the Congress of Babylonia was the greatest conquest. Was his greatest conquest, because he did it through his generosity and his mercy, as opposed to killing lots and lots of people. Okay, and at this time, what says the great and the persons realise is, if you really want to. Control people, you have to use a policy called divide and rule.

Prof. Jiang  30:07  
And the idea is this, before these empires, the Akkadians, Assyrians, the Babylonians, they believed that they use violence and fear to control people. When you do that, all you do is you anger people, unite them and force them to rebel against you, okay, but if you recognise that in each society, there are these natural factions who are covered with each other. You're able to balance these factions, then they're relying on you for stability, okay? Does that make sense? Okay, that's what we call it divide and rule. So the Persians created not an empire, but what we call a federation. In other words, a federation is the idea that people choose to be part of this federation because it benefits them, okay? Why does it benefit them? Because, first of all, it brings peace. If there's a conflict, you don't fight each other, you go to the Persians for a conflict resolution. Okay, so it brings peace. Second of all, it brings prosperity through trade. Okay? So the persons create all these roads that enable trade within the empire, and so you're better off actually trading than you are fighting, okay? And third of all, you're able to access new knowledge and culture through this process. So the persons were the first to create a national Imperial postal system. It was very, very clever. So all they did was they set up checkpoints throughout the empire. And these checkpoints, they were like hotels for postmen. They had food, they had new clothing, they had a place to sleep. These postmen would on their horses, carry mail throughout the empire and stop at these checkpoints to rest. Okay, so the Persians showed that by participating this empire, you could benefit a lot more than if you didn't participate, and therefore you should participate. And so it's amazing achievement, because remember, these nations work with each other throughout their history, and these are very aggressive people with lots of religious differences and such the great and his descendants were able to create a system that allowed them to work together and prosper together, and that's why he is remembered today. Sasha great is remembered today as the greatest rule of all time in human history. No one comes second, and also what the Jews refer to him as Messiah, the God, God's chosen, God's Anointed, a man picked by God to come to save the human people, the human race. You

Prof. Jiang  33:24  
it so with this federation, with this empire, what's important is the idea of administration. Okay, administration, you need administrators who will be conscientious and loyal and good people, okay? Because remember, they are working with local governors. So each region is allowed allow local autonomy, and each governor is called satraps. So they are working with the satraps to govern the local area. And remember, these satraps are allowed maximum autonomy and freedom to do what they believe. Everyone's allowed to practice their own religion. Okay? So what the administrations are doing is ensuring divide and rule right, that there's enough internal conflict within this region so that they're all dependent on the empire for guidance and authority. These administrators have to be administrators have to be, have to be they can't get into like bad with the SAT traps. They can't be cropped together, okay, because the system will break down. So there had to be a system to keep the administrators loyal to the Empire, and this system is a religion called Zoroastrianism, Zoroastrianism, and this is the religion of the Persian people, and this is the religion of the Imperial administration, if you want to be a. Bureaucrat within this within this system, you have to believe in Zoroastrianism. You have to participate in the rituals and the rites of Zoroastrianism. And what made the system work is Zoroastrianism was, at this time, 600 BCE, 500 BCE, the best religion in the world. Okay, so this is a new concept for us. The best religion in the world. We've discussed the best military in the world, right? The best military in the world has three characteristics, discipline. They fight a lot. They have a lot of experience, cohesion, they like each other, get along, and devotion. They have a common purpose. They have a great leader that they love. Okay? It turns out Religions can also be measured, and there's certain religions that are better than other religions based on three criteria. Okay, these three criteria are grandness, completeness and unity, okay? Grandness, completeness and unity. And this is not a hard concept, so think of religion as a story. And ask yourself, what makes a good story? What makes a story so wonderful you want to hear it, and it's these three things, grandness, it's a big topic, kings and gods and wars and love, okay? Completeness, there's a beginning and there's an end. And unity, there's a plot. Things are united. Okay, so if I were to tell you a story about Gilgamesh, who's a king who fought these gods in a search for immortality, and in the end, he discovers immortality is impossible. Well, that's a complete, unified and grand story, and you wouldn't want to hear that story. But if I would tell you a story about a guy named Robert who wants to get A's in school, and so he studies all the time, you don't want to hear the story. Okay? It's that grand. It's very boring. It's not complete. There's no ending. It's not really unified, because something really happens. Does that make sense? It's the same with religions. The problem with most religions is the structure. Okay? So the typical religion is a three tire structure. So at the Centre are gods, and gods are the ones who participate in human affairs. They're the ones manipulating us. But there's also a higher tier that governs the gods as well. Okay, these are cosmic forces like fate and fortune. And then the highest here are these invisible laws of the universe that give it structure, okay? What is referred to as the immutable and unwritten laws of a cosmos, okay? And this is what the Greeks believed. This is what the Romans believed, okay? And as you can see, this system, it's not complete, it's not unified, okay, maybe it may be grand, but it's not complete or unified. It's a very loose system. Zoroastrianism is the first really grand, complete and unified religion. Okay, so let's talk about Zoroastrianism. So in the religion, they believe there is a Creator God, okay, called the Ahura Mazda, and he is the God of creation. He's the God of light. He's the God of order. And he creates a perfect world, perfection. And within this world, we humans are created, okay, but then there is an evil presence, an evil god which comes and corrupts the perfection. And this evil or darkness is a match for the creator god. Okay, so the world is a perfect balance of dark and light. What tips a balance is the human race. We have free will, therefore we can choose to fight for goodness or to fight for darkness, to fight for the truth or to fight for the lie. Okay, so the two main the economy is truth and lie. You fight for the truth, you're making the world a better place, but if I for the lie, you are corrupting the world. Okay, so that's our choice. Eventually, a saviour, a hero, will arise to prepare for the final battle between dark and light. In this final battle, light will try. Triumph. Once light triumphs, a river will emerge. Okay, a river will emerge. And everyone must cross this river. Everyone will arise from the dead, and everyone has to cross the river. If you have any good, if you have fought for the truth, you will cross this river, and it will cleanse you. You will feel purified. You will become an eternal soul who will live in paradise forever. Will return to perfection, okay, but if in your life, you have lived a lie, if you have committed evil, if you have done wrong against other people, then you will burn in the river. You'll be condemned to hell for the rest of your life. Okay? And this is idea what we call eschatology. Eschatology, okay, so this is a hard word eschatology, but I need you guys to remember it, because it's very important. Word eschatology means an understanding of how the world ends. And Zoroastrianism is a first eschatological religion. It has an ending, a final battle, good versus evil, where everyone will be judged. Okay? And so now we understand why the Persian system works. Because if you are to be an administrator, if you are to work for the Empire, you and you believe in jurassism, then you have a duty to fight for the truth. Okay, we're here at most, for 6080 years. And what we do in the 680 years will be will decide how we live our lives for all of eternity. Okay, we either live in paradise or we'll burn in hell, depending on how we perform these 60 to 80 years. So the persons are under tremendous pressure to be a good person. This is radical in the history of humanity. Okay, so remember, the Mesopotamians believe you are good if you achieve right? How do you know you're good? Because you've achieved a lot, and by teaching a lot, you show that God's favour you, and Egyptians believed in status, and others believed in just good luck, okay, but the Persians believe you have to be a good person. You have to show generosity, compassion and mercy to others as as exemplified by the life and works and words of Cyrus, the great. So that's Erasmus. And this is so powerful that it will be adopted into Judaism and eventually become the basis for Christianity, okay, but this is where it started. Where it started, Zoroastrianism. Any questions so far before I continue, are guys clear? What's happening? No.

Prof. Jiang  43:20  
The response, okay, you know, that's a good question. If this is the best religion, what are the worst ones? Okay, you're right. There's really no bad religion, okay, but the most common religion is folklord religions, right? So, so you live in a village and you believe in a local God. Does that make sense? And so when I say it's best, what I mean is, intellectually, it's the best. It's a religion that can attract the best and the brightest. You understand. It's a religion where, if you are a very intelligent person, you are attracted to this religion. Okay, does that make sense? But if you are just a normal person, you're just going to believe what your father and your grandfather believed. Okay, so think of this religion almost as the equivalent of the Confucian classics in China. How do you show cultivation in China by reading the Confucian classics. And if you want to become a scholar official, you have to memorise the Confucian classics, right? The same concept here, where zoroasinism, you have to believe in this religion if you want to become an administrator. And the problem with this religion that makes it hard for people to understand is it's very abstract. That's the main failing of this religion. It's very abstract. It's very intellectual, and that's why a lot of people don't really see this as a religion and more as a philosophy. You.

Prof. Jiang  45:03  
It was also important, important for us to understand is the abstraction is what makes this religion appealing, right? Because the Persians are trying to attract the best and brightest for for for their administration, so they don't want a popular religion. They're not trying to they're not trying to promote their religion. Okay? They're trying to use their religion to filter out the best and the brightest. Does that make sense? Okay? So you're right. It's, I can't say this is the best religion, but it's the religion that is the most intellectual and which will attract the best administrators in the pushing Empire, and that's why it's effective. Okay, great question. Okay, any more questions?

Unknown Speaker  45:53  
Yes.

Prof. Jiang  46:02  
Okay, so area of completeness is eschatology, okay, an ending. Because most religions don't actually have an ending. They don't have they're like, Okay, this is when the world ends. Okay, so, for example, King David, the Bible, right? It's telling us that King David is really the end of history, and from now on, we will live forever in this Davidic kingdom. Okay, this is the best we can do. But it's not saying, okay, King David, we will eventually reach a point when the world ends and when God returns to the earth. No religion is doing that before Zoroastrianism. Does that make sense? Okay? So think of completeness as a circle, right? Because if you look at Zoroastrianism, they say this is a perfection, right? But now there's corruption. So the story ends when corruption ends and we return to perfection. So the circle closes. Does that make sense? The same with the Bible, where we start out in the garden of Eden and then we are corrupted. We are forced out of the Garden of Eden, right? But nor does it say we'll return to the Garden of Eden and but we reach Christianity. That's what will happen. Jesus will prom Well, Jesus the promise of the return to the Garden of Eden. Okay, so now the circle closes. Does that make sense? Any more questions? Great. All right, let's continue. So we have this religion, zoroasinism, and eventually the Jews will adopt it into their own religion, okay? And we have size, the great Who is this wise, generous and merciful leader, okay? But he is this way because he is strategic. Okay? He's strategic. So when he allows the Jews to return to Jerusalem, he's doing so for strategic purposes. Okay? He's not doing it because he feels sorry for the Jews, he's doing it because there's a certain strategic purpose in allowing them to return to Jerusalem. And the reason why is Jerusalem the Levant, as we discussed it, is very important geographically. It marks access into Egypt, which is what starts the great eventually wants to conquer. Because Egypt is the wealthiest nation in the world at this time. So he needs to bring stability to the Levant and in the in the Persian worldview, what creates stability is the balancing of forces within the local area. Okay? So he needs to create conflict in the Levant. At this point in the Levant. There are still Israelites living there, and they are now called this, the Samaritans. And then you have the Jews. The Jews is a Persian word. It means people who live in the province of Judea, which is a Persian province. Okay? So they're called Jews now, and not Israelites. Israelites are now called Samaritans. These come from the same people, okay, but the difference is this, the Israelites, who stay have adapted to new circumstances, and so what this means is they still practice their religion, but they've also intermarried with women of different faiths. So now it's common for a household to practice many different faiths. Whereas the Jews in Babylon, they're more fanatical. They believe it's important to practice only one faith. So when. Cyrus the Great sends the Jews back to the Levant. This immediately creates conflict between the Samaritans who believe they are the true descendants of the Israelites and the Jews who believe they are the true descendants of the Israelites. So this creates religious conflict in the Levant, which means the Persians are able to become the arbiter, okay? And this creates dividing rule. Now what's important for us to understand is the Jews who return to Samaritans are only the most fanatical Jews. Okay, there's only minority people. The rest of the Jews are perfectly happy in Mesopotamia. They have very successful careers as administrators, as intellectuals, as teachers. They're happy where they are okay. So it's only the most religious extremists who return, and they are in the minority. So Samaritans are in the majority. So the purge support the Jews who have returned in trying to create purity. Okay, so the Jews argue for purity. The Samaritans argue for tolerance. And

Prof. Jiang  51:20  
so this is a power struggle, a religious power struggle in 443, BCE around then a priest, a Jewish priest named Ezra. He returns to Jerusalem, and he's determined to win this war. Okay, so there are certain things he does. The first thing he does that is extremely controversial is he announces, if you are a Jewish man, you must divorce a foreign woman. If you're married to a foreign woman, meaning a woman who doesn't share our faith, then you must divorce her in order to maintain the purity of our people. Okay? He also announces that from now on, it is mandatory for Jewish man to observe religious rituals, to go to temple and make your sacrifice. Okay? So he's trying to establish purity. But his main contribution, which is most important, is he wants to unify the Jewish people into one faction. Okay, so let me explain why this is important. So as we discuss, there are multiple Bibles out there, okay? And so there's at least four different schools, or four different strands. There is the house of David school called the yahwehs, right? The yahwehs, or J remember, this is, this is the idea of the Yahweh. Is that Yahweh, he is a fallible, good meaning, well meaning poet, okay, but the main point of the Yahweh, the Yahweh is God has chosen David to be the legitimate ruler of Israel. God has also ordained David to build the temple where God will reside. Okay, so this is to legitimise the authority of David and to make you understand the central authority of this religion is the temple in Jerusalem. But as we discussed, eventually the northern kingdom will break away from Judah, but once you break away, you can't access Jerusalem anymore. So now you have to have other sites where you can practice your religious rituals. Okay, but you do that, you have to change the Yahweh manuscript. And so they do that and create new mythologies. And this, what's called the E manuscript, okay? For Elohim, Elohim is just a different word for God. Does that make sense? So you have two competing Bibles at the same time you have the priestly manuals. Okay? So remember Judaism at this point, it is a religion focus on ritual, like most religions, so you need manuals in order to tell you why you're doing these rituals and how you should do these rituals that they very precise. They're to be effective. Okay, the same time as the northern kingdom fell as Judah was conquered by the Babylonians. As as Jews are forced into captivity, you have to explain why this is happening, okay? And while this happening, most people choose to not follow religion anymore. Okay? They adopt a new religion or. They move somewhere else, okay, but the religious fanatics have explained what is happening, and the explanation is because the Israelites continue to disobey God, and this faction, which is basically looking at Jewish history explaining what is happening, is called the Deuteronomy, the D score, the Deuteronomy. So

Prof. Jiang  55:31  
these are four major factions. You understand, these are four different Bibles. Now actually wants to do is put all these four Bibles together to create the impression of a unified religion and a unified people. And the way he does that, which is very interesting, is he basically just takes different parts from each of these books and puts them together. Okay? And now this is the Bible. And that's why, if you actually read the Bible, you'll find it completely unreadable. But he also makes changes to the Bible, which is very important. Remember, before the most important person was David, because he's really the founder of the nation of Israel. He's the founder of religion. Now the most important person is Moses, because Moses is a priest, he's the one who was given the laws by Yahweh. Okay, so there are other changes as well, but this is the most important, okay, there are other changes that will come over time as zoroasinism merges into Judaism, okay, so there are three major changes. The first is the idea of eschatology, okay, meaning there will be an end point to history. And the end point of history is when the entire world, when all the empires of the world, because they defy God, converge against the nation of Israel in one final battle. Okay, in this battle, of course, Israel will win, and this will create eternal peace in the world, because God has chosen Israel as His people. Second big idea is good versus evil. Before the religion of Judaism was very personal, good and evil what's in you? But now it's there is actually good and evil. Okay? Israel stands for good. These other nations, these other empires, like the Babylonians, the Greeks, the Romans, they represent evil. Okay? And the third change, and which is the most important, is there'll be a hero who will come to lead the nation of Israel against all its enemies. And he is called the Messiah, the Son of Man, the son of man, and he will come from the house of David, as written in the Bible. And why is this important? Because the Christians believe their Messiah is Jesus. Okay, so the Christians basically take all this, this merger of zoroasininism, of Judaism, and their claim is the Messiah is Jesus, okay? And this creates Christianity, which we will discuss next class. All right,

Prof. Jiang  58:48  
okay, any questions so far? Are you guys clear about all this?

Unknown Speaker  58:58  
Yep,

Prof. Jiang  59:09  
excuse me. Okay, yeah, okay, thanks, thank you. Okay, okay, all right, so let me explain what's happening. Okay, so remember the Babylons, the Babylonians in 586, they take over Jerusalem, they burn a temple. They destroy the religion of the Jews. They take the elite, about a few 1000 people, they move them to Babylonia. Okay, and but what's who's left behind are a majority, the majority of Israelites, okay, but now they have to adapt to a new elite, and so they preserve their religion. They also adopt the religion of the elite, who are the Babylonians, okay? You also have Israelites who go off to Egypt. Okay, so now you create something called diaspora. They're either in Babylon or they're in Egypt, but the majority are still at home in Judea. And in this time, because these are just ordinary people, they will adopt many faiths. It's very common back then for a person to have like, multiple faiths, okay, the face of your father, the face of your mother, the faith of your wife, okay, the faith of your neighbour, okay, because this is how people got along, right? If you said that my god is better than your God, you will piss off your neighbour, you will piss off your colleague. Why would you do that? So it's very common back then for people to have multiple faiths, a faith you might practice at home, a faith you might share with your friends, a faith you might have to share with your king. Does that make sense? Okay? So these are extremely multi religious people, and as we discussed, when the Jews are when the Israelites are forced to go to Babylon. They are forced to have a more fanatical religion in order to maintain their identity, right? It's like, how do you separate yourself from these other people? Because we don't do that. What happens is you become assimilated, right? You lose what it means to be Israelite. And quite honestly, most people chose to be assimilated because that was the easiest thing to do. But there's a fanatical minority, mainly priests, who were determined to keep alive their religion, because only by keeping alive their religion could they keep alive. Yahweh, could they keep alive? Israel. Okay, so when these Jews were allowed to return to Judea, they were horrified by the corruption and purity. They saw right? They were like we were in Babylon, and for 70 years, we fought hard to save our religion to maintain the purity of our religion, they go back and they see their people, the Samaritans now adopt foreign gods, and they were like, This is why we fail as a people. This is why Yahweh punished us, because we refuse to be loyal. So what So in their thinking is like, I would rather always people go away then have them stay around. You understand, we don't get a law. Want to maintain the purity of a religion, because that's the only way to save our people. Okay? And that's why they say, Hey, you're gonna stay. You have to divorce your wife who is a foreigner. If you if you don't do, if you don't want to do so, go away. Man. The Hossain Empire is huge. Go somewhere else. But Jerusalem. It's only the land of the pier. Okay. Does that make sense? So you know, I know this is a controversial idea, but it's really only the extremists who keep the religion alive, right? This, this is true for all religions. Okay? Does that make sense? It's only people who are most willing to die for their religion that keeps the religion alive. If everyone's willing to compromise, the religion dies very quickly, okay? And the Jewish religion, Judaism, is able to stay alive for 3000 years because there are lots of people in the religion, a minority, but still a lot of people who are willing to die for the religion. That's something we'll discuss later on this semester. Okay, so thanks for question. Any more questions? No.

Prof. Jiang  1:03:48  
Okay, so next class, we will discuss the rise of Christianity, okay, Jesus, basically you.

