Prof. Jiang  0:00  
Okay, so today we will discuss the Bronze Age collapse. I want to paint you a picture of the world in about 1200 BC. So in this world, the centre of this world is what we call mycenain, Greece, across from the Mycenaean Greece across the Aegean Sea. Okay, this is the agent. Is what we call Anatolia. Today, we refer to Anatolia as Turkey and the Anatolia, the high tide Empire rules Anatolia. Further south is a place called canine, okay, canine is important when we do the Bible, because that is the birthplace of the Israelites. Okay, so Canaan today is what we refer to as Lebanon, Syria and Israel today. Canaan is a province of the Egyptian empire. Okay, so this is Egypt, okay. Over here is a place called Mesopotamia. And we today call Mesopotamia Iraq. Over here is today what we call Iran. Back then it was basically Persia. Over here is Afghanistan, and then next to Afghanistan is India. And of course, remember these are the steps. Okay, so for Mesa and Greece, you also had the Mediterranean. And over here are the islands of Cyprus and Crete. And then over here is a place called Iberia. And over here is Britain. Okay, so this is a, this is a map of the world in 1200 BC. And what's really important for you to recognise about this world is it's interconnected, meaning that they are trading and communicating with each other. This is what we call the Bronze Age, the Bronze Age. And why is it called the Bronze Age? Because they're trading, basically bronze during this period back then, bronze is like oil today. It is the basis for the economy, the very structure of their economy. Bronze is an alloy made of copper and tin, copper and tin you have to mine, okay, and only a few places will have these resources. So tin is found in Britain, in Iberia, in Anatolia in Afghanistan, okay. Copper is mainly found in Cyprus and Crete and also in Anatolia. Now meaning, and what this means is, in order to make bronze, you basically have to trade with the entire world. So India, this world, the trading would go as far as from India to Britain, even China over here was part of this world, but not to the degree as these other places, okay, um, in this world, there are different ways that you can profit or make money, okay? The first eat. The first way is mining, so basically extracting resources, tin and corporate in order to make bronze. Second way is industry manufacturing, right? So turning so making bronze from tin and copper, and then turning bronze into weapons, into pottery to be sold elsewhere. The third way you can make money is by what trading, right? So in this world, if you look at this map, who basically profit the most from trading, if you look at this map, who would make the most money from trading. This area, right? Does that make sense? Because it is the centre of the world you have to pass. Through this world in order to access everywhere else. Okay? And this place over here, you look at the map, it becomes the centre of the world, because this place becomes the logistics hub of the world. Right to get to anywhere, you have to pass through this place. And so this place can basically collect tolls, right? This place is called what you guys know me, yeah, it's the toll gate of the world, right? You have to pass through this place in order to access other places. Therefore, this place is very wealthy this place. Can you guess what this place is called, you guys. Can you guys guess Troy? Have you guys heard of the Trojan War? Okay, we will do the Iliad next semester. We will discuss the Iliad next class. But I want you to understand this place is called Troy, and because this place is so important, for centuries, they've been fighting wars over this place, because it's really the centre of the of the universe, right? If you can control this place, you become very wealthy because everyone has passed through you. You can collect tolls. You can trade. Okay, does that make sense? And the last way you can make money off this world is, what? What's the last way in which you can make a lot of money in this world? You can do it through mining industry, trading. What else can you do to make money? You a piracy, right? Does that make sense? Steel piracy, right? So when we do Iliad, what you will discover is the Greeks who attacked Troy. They were basically pirates. Troy made a lot enough trading and pirates went to steal a lot of their resources and wealth. Does it make sense? So the main point is that this world was interconnected. It was a globalised world. We call this globalisation, but the same time. It was very chaotic. It very it was very dynamic. Okay, they traded with each other, but they also fought wars against each other. Does that make sense? And these places in the centre of the universe, my senior, Greece, okay, became very wealthy because they traded and they engaged in piracy. The high tides became very wealthy. Egypt became very wealthy, okay, because they were the centre of the universe. But a couple of decades later, this entire world collapsed. This world disappeared, meaning that my senior Greece was destroyed. It was completely burned down, and they lost about a quarter of their population. The Haida Empire destroyed. And even though canine disappeared, and even though Egypt was not destroyed, it ceased to be a hegemon. It ceased to be a global power, and a few decades later, they were conquered by outside powers. Okay, after 1200 BCE, Egypt ceased to be a power. So this what we call the Bronze Age collapse. And for the decades, scholars have been trying to figure out what happened. Why is it that in 1200 BCE, this world was wolfy, it was interconnected, and then a few decades later, it all disappeared, it collapsed. And that's a great mystery that no one has been able to solve. Okay, so let me tell you what we know. We know that what caused this collapse are what we call the sea peoples, sea peoples, and we know because Egypt has written records of battling the sea peoples. So basically, over the course of few decades, people were coming in from the west and attacking Egypt. Okay, this was not one people. This was a series of different peoples attacking Egypt from the sea, and Egypt had to spend decades in order to repulse the sea peoples. What we know is the sea peoples, whoever they were, they didn't destroy Egypt, but they did they destroy the high tides, and they did destroy the Mycenaean Greece.

Prof. Jiang  9:56  
Okay, so and what we. We know is the sea peoples. They were basically a combination of pirates and also refugees. These people attacked Egypt because Egypt was the breadbasket of the world. That's where all the food was. So they were attacking Egypt for the food. Okay? These are people who are hungry. They join with pirates at ships. They were trying to take over Egypt together. They destroyed myzen Greece. They destroyed the high tides, but they failed to destroy Greece. They were stopped. They were stopped in Egypt. Okay, so another question then is, what's driving this population movement from west to east, that's a great mystery. And over the past few decades, different solutions, different ideas have been proposed before we thought it must have been an invasion. So the idea is that what's happening is you had people from the north of Europe invade Mycenaean Greece, which drove them westward. Okay, that's the first idea that we had, but we have not found any evidence to this to we have not found any evidence this is the case, okay? So even though this was one of the first theories, there's actually no evidence to support this. Second theory that we had is basically a natural disaster. So the idea is maybe there was a volcanic explosion somewhere, okay, and this caused the weather to change, and now farmers could no longer feed themselves, so they may start to move westwards and attack Egypt. Okay, that's second theory, and there's more evidence for this with this, but the theory that we have today is a perfect storm, okay, or a systems collapse. And the idea here is that it was not one thing in one year that caused the system to collapse. It was a series of events over decades, okay, and these three major events are natural disasters or so, basically earthquakes. So we have archaeological evidence that there is a series of earthquakes in this region at this time which destabilise the region. Okay, so earthquakes happen. We also have evidence of climate change. Okay, so the weather became cooler over the course of this period, which meant it was harder to grow crops, okay? And we also have evidence of eternal revolt, okay, meaning that people rebelled against the elite, overthrew kings, and there was a lot of war and violence, okay, so the theory that we have today is what caused the branch H collapse was a perfect storm, basically a multiple factors which led to systems collapse. Does that make sense? Guys? Any questions so far? Any questions so far, are we clear? All right, so one thing that you have made you, that you have made notice in this class, is that I have a very different understanding of history than other people. Okay, so I happen to disagree with this theory of the purge storm, even though it is the scholarly consensus. All right, so I want to explain to you today my theory of what happened. All right, so the first thing you need to understand is this system collapsed, even though it was traumatic for Europe, it is not unique in human history. This sort of stuff has happened before. Okay, so we go over here to North America, to the Mayas. Okay, so the Maya, the Maya civilization existed in Central America, okay, Guatemala, basically. And so we find similar pattern where in about 200 ad, okay, in the year 200 their civilization start to explode. Okay, it starts to increase. It reach its peak at about 900 ad, in the year 900 its civilization was over place in Central America. But then after 900 it went all the way down. Okay, so about 30 years time, by 1200 they're basically their entire civilization almost collapsed. So it's a very similar pattern to what's happening in the Bronze Age. So the question then is, why does this happen? Right? And so to understand this, I am going to present you with a new theory that we will use a lot in this class. So I want you to understand this theory, okay, but it comes from a historian by the name of Peter Turchin. Peter Turchin, who's a historian. He's American, but he came over from Russia. He's basically Russian American, and he has a theory called elite overproduction.

Prof. Jiang  15:40  
And elite overproduction. The theory is very interesting because it's arguing against the way we traditionally understand why societies collapse. Okay, so the way we usually understand why societies collapse is we get it from Karl Marx. And basically what Karl Marx says is, eventually your society collapses because the people revolt, okay, so, basically, people rebellion. So, in other words, Karl Marx believes that society collapses because it is a bottom up process. Okay, it's a bottom up process. If you treat workers badly, they will stop working. If you force them to work, they will go on strike. If you force them to work again, they will fight against you. They will rebel, okay, a worker revolution. That's what Karl Marx argues, and Peter Turchin says, Okay, that's a really interesting theory. But if you look at the historical data, if you look at the evidence, the problem isn't a bottom okay, if you look at what society's collapse, it's not because of the people rebelling, it's because there's infighting among the elite. Okay, so there's civil war among the elite. Does that make sense? That's his theory. If the problem of society isn't that, you there's too many poor people. The problem error. The problem is there are too many rich people. That's the real problem, and that's why societies collapse. All right, all right, so let me explain to you this theory slowly, okay, all right, elite overproduction, right? I'm right, okay, it's fine, all right, so in this world or 12 minute BCE, we have something called a permanent hereditary elite, okay? Permanent hereditary elite, permanent just means they're always there. Okay? Hereditary means they pass on their status and their privilege and their wealth to the children. And this is new in human history, because before there was an elite, but they were not permanent, meaning they could be changed over time, and they didn't pass their privileges on to their children. Everyone had to earn their privilege and power. Okay? So the elite was constantly shifting in society, but now, in about the year 1200 BCE, you had a permanent, hereditary elite. When you have that, you have three advantages, okay, what the elite gives society are three major advantages. The first major advantage is the idea of organisation, right? Basically, think of the elite as your brain of society's brain. They can help coordinate resources, okay, that's good for war. You're finding an enemy. You need an elite to lead you into battle, okay? It's also good for public works, okay, so think of the pyramids in Egypt, in the Great Wall of China, right? You need a lead to organise your resources in order to create public works that benefit all society. So the main, the main thing here, would be irrigation, right? So, you need a lead in order to have irrigation. So that's the first major benefit of having a permanent, hereditary elite. Second major advantage is because you have better organisation, you have more wealth. Okay? So it becomes wealthier if you have a. Permanent elite people work harder. And even though there's more inequality, inequality also forces people to work harder. Does that make sense? And because you have these two things, organisation and wealth, you also have scale. And what scale basically means is your population. Now can move up before in the in the egalitarian society, when you didn't have a permanent elite, at most, society could reach about 10,000 people. But now, when you have a permanent elite, you can reach about a million people. Okay, so now you can scale up. So these are three major advantages to having an elite, okay, but there's a problem with having an elite, and the problem is they engage something called rent seeking behaviour, all right, I want you guys to remember this term, rent seeking behaviour, which is very important for our class. So what does this mean? It means basically, to think of a landlord, right? A landlord doesn't really do anything, but a landlord has land that it can rent to you, the farmer. In exchange, you give me a share of your crops, right? So I don't do anything, but because I have land, I can rent it out to you, right? It turns out the elite mainly make their money through rent seeking behaviour. So let me give you another example of rent seeking behaviour. All of you want to go to university, right? Why do you want to go to university? What's your purpose? What's your purpose in going to university? Be honest, it's to get the degree, right, okay, the degree, okay, and the degree is your ticket to success in society. Okay? You believe that when you go university, you are getting a ticket the degree in order to access social mobility, okay, to access wealth in society. In other words, the universities are charging you rent. Okay? So the degree is basically rent. Does that make sense? Okay? Now, some of you may say, Wait, that's wrong, because I'm going to university to learn, right? It's about learning. Well, guess what? When you actually go to university, you're going to discover they don't actually teach you that much. Okay? They don't have to teach you that much. And the reason why is you're stuck paying the rent. You need the degree, right? Should I have to actually teach you anything? You have to come to class anyway. Does it make sense? The same thing for the school, where in order to get to university, you have to go for this high school, so you're here paying tuition and you're paying rent. Does that make sense? You're not here in a school to learn, you're here in school to get the degree so you can access university and get the get and get that degree, okay? And all this process, all you're doing is paying rent, right? So if you are, if you have a school, you can charge people rent, just as if you're a landlord, you can charge people rent for renting your room or real estate property, okay, does that make sense? This is what we call rent seeking behaviour. Now you're like, Okay, well, this kind of sucks, okay, and it does suck, but what keeps the system together is the idea of a social contract. Basically,

Prof. Jiang  24:09  
the idea of social contract is, yes, we the elite. We know we are charging you rent, and we know this sucks for you, the people, but we have a contract. So as the elite, I'm obligated to help society, okay? So the way they help society is by giving back to society, okay, so what the elite do throughout society in the past is they organise public fees, okay? And also public temples. So in today's society, you know, like the parks, the schools, they're built by the government, right? But back then, they didn't have a government that the elites who were responsible for building temples, for building, uh. For for holding public fees. Okay? So this, this idea of a social contract, okay? And the reason why you need a social contract is because if you don't have a social contract and you just charge rent, people will leave it. Does that make sense? Okay, so in this world, it's very chaotic, but there are different places. There are different social organisations you can go to. So you are in Egypt and you don't really like Egypt. Guess what? You can go to Mesopotamia. So these cities were in competition with each other for people, because people provided labour and resources. Okay, does it make sense? All right. So this is how it usually works. But over time, this system will break down, okay, this system will break down, and it's because of red seeking behaviour, okay, so the first issue is this, with rent seeking behaviour, you create something called debt. Okay, so I'm a landlord, and you're you are paying me rent in order to use my land, right? And that land and that rent is usually a portion of your crops. Okay? So you doesn't make sense, maybe 10% of your crops. But let's just say, for example, it's a bad year. It doesn't rain, okay, and you don't have any crops to pay me rent. So what do you do? You're supposed to pay me a rent, but you don't have the money. So what do you do? No, that comes later. What do you do first? Exactly. Thank you. Yes. Okay, so the first thing that happens is a boring okay, you basically go into debt. Okay? So you promise to pay me double in the next year. And I'm like, Okay, fine, right? But you get unlucky in the next year. It's also a bad year, and so for five years in a row, you are in debt. The problem with debt is this something called compound interest. You stress, okay, meaning, like over time the debt becomes so hard, there's no way you can pay it off. If you can't pay it off, what happens? What happens now? You

Prof. Jiang  27:45  
children. Okay, good, yeah. So the idea is that slavery, okay, so if you can't pay me back, you become, you become my slave. Okay, you promised me that your children will work for work for me, for free. Okay? And so DEBT SLAVERY becomes the natural product of rent seeking behaviour. Does that make sense? Over time, you're always going to have a percentage of your population who go into debt slavery, and this creates a lot of instability in society, because obviously they'll either want to run away or they want to rebel, okay? Does it make sense? The other problem is elite overproduction. An idea here is, everyone wants to be the renter, right? Everyone wants to be the landlord, right? But there's only so much land, so now people are competing for the power to charge rent. Does that make sense? Okay? So over time in any society, as the population increases, no people who go into that slavery increase, and therefore people at the bottom are very angry, but the same time, the elite, the number go up, but there's only a set number, set amount of land, and therefore they have to fight over the land, okay? Doesn't make sense. And so eventually what happens is the society goes into war. Okay, as the elite fight each over. As elite fight each other for the right to charge rent. Does it make sense? And so the main message of elite production is, unless you can control the amount, the number of the elite in your society, your society must collapse. Does that make sense? It must collapse because you have too many people fighting for for too little power, it must collapse. So historically, what are ways you What are things you can do to control the elite? What are things you can do to control the number of the elite? You

Prof. Jiang  30:25  
You mean, kill the elite, heritage elite from like passing their property, okay, um, so, so, but then where does the property go? Yeah, so, okay, so one possible thing you can do is the idea of land redistribution. Okay, so historically, this is one mechanism you can use to control the growth of the elite, and this is how kings came into power. Okay? So most societies have an elite, and then one person from the elite said, Listen, this society is not working. Let me redistribute the land and cancel debt in order for our society to keep on going, okay? And this person became the king. So that's one possible solution, okay, what's another possible solution? To me?

Prof. Jiang  31:49  
Okay, so you can also have a civil war, okay? Civil War? Okay, the elite can fight amongst themselves, and whoever wins gets, gets everything. Okay, so it's a second possible solution. What's another possible solution? What's

Prof. Jiang  32:10  
another possible solution? Okay, empire building, right? Does that make sense? Empire building, in other words, let's not fight it amongst ourselves. Let's go and conquer new territory. It doesn't make sense. So because you have a permanent, hereditary elite, okay, over time, they're going to reach a mass too many people. We have too many elite. You have to resolve this issue through three ways. Okay? The first thing you can do is kill the elite and redistribute the land. That's what a king does. Second thing you can do is have a civil war, okay. The third thing you can do is create an empire, okay, but these three solutions by themselves, are also unstable, okay? Because land redistribution is basically a revolution, right? So war is war. Empire building is also war. Does that make sense? So no matter how you do these things, you're always going to create instability, and eventually, your empire, your society, will collapse. Does it make sense? All right, so let me give you another example of how this works to clarify for you. Okay, so there's a book called capital in the 21st Century by Thomas Piketty. Thomas Piketty is a French economist, and this is a very famous book that's been that's been recently published. And in the book, he looked at the past 100 years of economic growth, and what he discovered over time is the financial economy grows faster than the real economy. Capital grows faster than manufacturing. Okay, so if you look at Capital, grows at 5% real economy grows at 2% right? If things stay stable over time, this will happen to all societies. Capital will grow faster than the real economy. What this means is, let's just say you have a million dollars. Okay, I have a million dollars. I have different options to invest my money. I can start a factory, or I can start or I can put all my money into real estate or the stock market. Where should I put my money? I can, I can open a factory. You right? Or I can put in a stock market, where should, where should I put my money? Yes, and why?

Prof. Jiang  35:16  
Exactly, you understand, if you have money today, you do not put your money into the factories. You do not open a new business. You put it in the stock market, because you make more money that way. What's the problem with that? Yeah,

Prof. Jiang  35:40  
exactly. It's just a bubble, guys. Okay, why is it a bubble? Because money isn't real, capital isn't real. It's a fiction. You understand. So in other words, you you don't work anymore. You understand you're just renting now. Okay? You you're engaging in the rent seeking behaviour. We have too many people doing that. You have a society where nobody works. Does that make sense? Nobody does any work, because all the wealth is being put into rent, sinking behaviour. It's being put into speculation, so no one's doing any more work, no one's creating more wealth, and This eventually leads to social collapse at some point. Okay, does that make sense? All right, so Peter torch is theory of elite over production is because the number of rich people can only go up over time. Your society must collapse at some point, unless you choose to have a revolution, or you have a civil war, or you go invade other countries, okay, those are your three options. But if you did that, creates more instability. So over time, no matter how how you structure your society, it will collapse. Does that make sense? Okay, so that's what happened during the brunch. It's collapsed where the societies must have been. In Greece, high tides, Egypt can end. They were fundamentally unstable because of rent seeking behaviour, okay, same thing with the Mayans where, okay. They were growing very fast, but eventually they collapsed. All societies will do this at some point. No society is stable, okay? And the reason why is you have an elite in charge who help society grow, but over time, they will just engage in red sticking behaviour, which will eventually lead to collapse of society. Does that make sense, right? And this is a pattern that we'll see over and over again in human history, and we will discuss this idea throughout the semester. All right, does that make sense? Any questions? All right, so let's look at a very specific example of wrenching behaviour, my city in Greece. Right, Mycenae, Greece. So Mycenae in Greece. And you may remember this from last class. It was a long time ago, but last class, we talked about the yemain, right, the yemenia, right, the conquered Europe. So the Mycenaean Greece and the high tides are direct descendants of the Amaya. And as you remember, this is a warrior culture, okay? So these societies are warrior societies, meaning, like the Warriors are in charge, and they have a system called a palace economy. So Okay? A past economy, a past economy is basically the palace is at the centre of society, and everyone brings their wealth to the palace to be redistributed to everyone else. So the idea here is, we're all farmers, right? And maybe you have 100 100 bushels of wheat, maybe 20 bushels of corn, okay, everyone brings everything to the palace, and then the king redistributes everything to you, okay, but obviously he takes a cut, understand? So this is called Red seeking behaviour, where you're basically paying taxes, okay, does it make sense? Okay? Now this is fine when things are good, okay? Okay, but if there be the weather becomes bad, the system starts to collapse. Why the weather is bad? Things start to become chaotic. Why? Okay? The reason why is the elite still want their cut. You understand? It's not like, oh, this year the weather's bad, so let's just suffer together. Okay, let's make sacrifices together. No, it's like, no, we don't care. The weather's bad. You still have to pay our pay our cut. Okay? You still have to pay your taxes, right? And that creates strain on the people. The people get very angry. Okay, so we have evidence that during the Bronze Age, there was a internal revolt in Mycenaean Greece, and the reason why is we can dig up my city in Greece, okay, the palace. And what we see is the palace is burned down, but the surrounding houses are fine. Okay. Does that make sense? We also have written records from my city in Greece that show how the palace economy worked. Okay? We can also dig up the graves of the kings and show that over time, they became wealthier and wealthier, because when they were buried, the things they were buried with were became were very expensive. Does that make sense? Okay? So that's my study in Greece. Any questions so far? Okay, it's clear, clear about this idea. Okay, so, so what a lot of scholars believe is that this is the bondage collapse. Was a unique event in European history. And what I'm trying to show you is it was not a unique event. It was not a revolution. It's just part of the natural cycle of history, because when you have an elite who engage in red sticking behaviour, eventually this society will collapse, because you have too many elite who want their cut. And when we look at other societies, you will, you will discover this. This pattern repeats itself, right? So this, this is Peter Turchin his theory of elite over production. Are we clear? Yes.

Prof. Jiang  42:58  
Okay, all right, so, okay, let me clarify about my city in Greece, okay, all right. The problem is that you have too many rich people who want to charge rent, right? And that creates pressure on society. And this instability means that your society is no longer resilient, okay, resilient. The idea of resilience is that it survives disasters, right? So think of a power that's about to collapse, okay, it will not collapse on its own. Something must hit it for it to collapse. But this one thing could be anything, okay, it could be the people get angry and they riot. It could be the weather turns bad, okay, it could be there's an earthquake. It could be there's an invasion. Does that make sense? So these different societies, okay, Mycenaean Greece, Hittites, the Canaanites, they collapse for different reasons, but the fundamental reason is because your societies were unstable. The reason why they were unstable is you had too many elite people trying to charge rent on everyone else. Does that make sense? Okay, any more questions. That's a good question. Thank you. Excuse me, mean, oh, can you avoid the cycle in today's society? Okay, that's a great question. And the answer is no, okay, it is impossible to build a society that that is stable over a long period of time. In fact, you can make the argument that it is good for societies to rise and fall. Okay, it's the same thing as it's really the same question as, is it possible for us to live forever? Is it possible for us to live forever? No, no. Question then is, why would we want to live forever? You understand innovation happens when we die. Okay, so what's amazing about the Bronze Age collapse is because the Bronze Age collapsed, Mycenaean grease changed into a new society that gave us Greek civilization, which then gave us Western civilization. Okay, so in other words, if my son and Greece did not collapse, we would not have today, also because canine collapse, a new society came into being called the Israelites. Okay? Israel and Israel gave us what you guys know, the Bible, right? And guess what? Guys, the Greeks and the Bible are the two foundations of Western civilization. So we would not have watches on civilization if these societies did not collapse, and new societies could come into being. All right? So you can make the argument that innovation progress is driven by death and collapse. All right, you understand. And if we, if we do not die, if we not, if we do not die, besides collapse, there be no progress. Okay, does it make sense? But that's a good question, okay, but, but, and people will have been debating this question for a long time, but I think the answer is, it is impossible to build a society that lives forever, even though people have tried, and also we should even try, okay, because collapse is good. Also think of a force fire. Have you studied forest fires in school, in science class, forest fires, forest fires guys, each time there's a force fire, okay, the force burns down. That's good, because it allows the forest to regenerate and become stronger, right? What happens if you don't have a forest fire? Did you guys know? Okay, the resilience goes down, okay? And also the ecosystem is less vibrant. They're less there are less animals, the trees are less strong. Okay, you understand. So that's why it's important to burn down the forest now and then you don't burn down the forest and there's then it's less resilient. So there's a big forest fire, it will just spread and destroy the entire forest. Okay, does that make sense? So it's good for societies to constantly change over time. Any more questions? No.

Prof. Jiang  48:20  
By the production. Okay, that's a great question. Okay, all right, so before we talk about egatarian societies, right, how they were at most 10,000 people, and they did have an elite, okay? They had an elite. They had people in charge, but this elite didn't own the property. There's no private property, okay? So it's egalitarian. And so these societies were pretty stable, okay? And the reason why is usually it was the woman in charge, and the woman could were good at controlling population, okay? Because as a woman, you have control over your body, so you could choose not to have children or have less children. And it was very peaceful, right? People didn't really fight. There's nothing to fight over. Everything was owned by everyone else. Okay, the problem with egalitarian societies are these three things, okay? They're less organised, meaning like they are less willing or less able to create public projects. Okay, they have less wealth, and therefore they have less scale. Okay, you can have at most 10,000 people. Which means, what? Which means like, eventually they will be conquered. Okay. Does that make sense? Because if you are one of these societies, okay, you're an empire. You must consciously expand in order to please the elite. Basically, okay, either you expand or you fight a civil war. And so you take over egalitarian societies and you make them. Into your society, okay, do you understand? So, for most of human history, we're egalitarian, but that's because we didn't have that many people, right? But over time, as population increases, then you are less egalitarian. You become more unequal, you stay egalitarian, you will eventually conquered by a not an egalitarian society. Does that make sense, right, right? But that's a great question. You're exactly right, okay, for most of human history, we're egalitarian, but once we start develop elite societies, okay, kingdoms, then it could easily conquer egalitarian societies. Any more questions, but that's a fantastic question. Okay? Any more questions.

Prof. Jiang  51:00  
And when we do so, we are skipping ahead. But when we do Samaria, Samaria, which is basically many different city states in Iraq, Mesopotamia, what we will discover is that there are different social structures. Okay, there are different social structures, including societies that were egalitarian, but when you're in competition with each other, societies that are more organised, more wealthy now, bigger populations will always win out over other societies. You have these three things you need a permanent, hereditary elite, because then they are more incentivized in order to work harder. Does that make sense? And then the question then, is okay? Why is that true? And it's true because for societies to become wealthier, you don't need everyone to work hard. You just need a certain number of people to work hard. You just need a small group of people to work hard. It doesn't make sense. So think of like China, right? How China became wealthier these past 3040, years, and the reason why is you had a small number of entrepreneurs who worked really, really hard. Okay, not everyone worked hard, okay, but because you have these people who did work really hard, trying to become wealthier, does that make sense? Okay, any more questions? Okay, so, great. Okay. So again, what makes this class different from other classes is we are looking at the entire scope of human history, all right, and so it's very important for you to not understand, not remember the facts. Okay, I don't need you remember the facts. Okay? I don't need to remember my son in Greece or the sea peoples, but I do need you to remember the concepts and the ideas. Okay? How the world history is constantly in competition with each other, and why is it that some ideas win out over other ideas? Okay, so that's saying this is the best idea. Okay, I'm not saying a permanent, hereditary Elite is a really good idea. I don't think it's a good idea, okay, but I'm showing you why it wins out and how it impacts human history and the development of civilization. Does that make sense? Okay, okay. Any more questions? Okay, well, that's it. Um.

