Prof. Jiang  0:00  
Okay, so good morning. We finished a Bronze Age today with the Indus Valley Civilization. So we've done Egypt, we've done Mesopotamia. Now we're doing the Indus Valley Civilization. And today I'm going to look at three questions. Okay, first of all, what is it that makes Indus Valley Civilization distinct or different from other civilizations. Second is, why did they decline? They reached their peak about 2600 to 1900 BCE, and then for the next three to 400 years, they declined and ultimately disappeared. Okay, why did it happen? The last question is, what is their legacy, what's their contribution to development of Western civilization? Okay, all right, so let's look at Venice Valley Civilization. To do so we need, we need to first understand the world at this time, and it's about 2500 to 2000 BC. Okay, this is what we call the Middle Bronze Age, because most people were using bronze for weapons, for tools. So over here is Egypt, and as we discussed, by far, Egypt is the wealthiest, most advanced civilization in the Bronze Age. Over here, across the Red Sea, is Arabia. And even though Arabia isn't really discussed that much in world history. It's so significant because it's part of the trading network, okay, so the Arabia, it's many nomads who take goods from Mesopotamia over to Egypt and then into the Mediterranean. Which axis of Europe? This is summer, which is the beginning of the Mesopotamian civilization. Okay, up here is Anatolia, the Levant, and then the Innis Valley civilization is over here. And today it would cover the countries of Afghanistan, Pakistan and Northwest India. What makes Indus Valley Civilization important is it's really by the coast, which allows it to access Mesopotamia and Egypt. Okay, meaning, during the Bronze Age, these three civilizations, Egyptians, Mesopotamians and the Indus Valley civilization were heavily interconnected through trade. And in this Valley Civilization, what they what was unique to them are certain products, for example, indigo dye, which was really sought after in Mesopotamia and in Egypt. Their handicrafts, their jewellery, were also very famous throughout the world. They usually traded with Sumer and Egypt by trading with the Gulf state nations of Bahrain and Oman and Dubai. Okay? And they actually had a colony by the Persian Gulf, right? This civilization was so good at trading that we believe they even traded with China, okay, which is pretty far away, but their ships were huge and they were very good navigators. As the Bronze Age developed over time, bronze was in heavy demand, and the main components of bronze are copper and tin. Tin is mainly found in the mountains of Afghanistan over here, okay, which meant the Ines Valley Civilization start to now expand over to Afghanistan in order to access the tin trade. Okay, so tin was really sought after. But there was also another stone called Lapis lazula, which is really sought after by the Egyptians for its spiritual and aesthetic qualities. And over here, because of the trade with Afghanistan land, routes start to develop into Anatolia and Mesopotamia, okay? And as well, because of this trade in Afghanistan, neutralisation start to develop as well, and they're not as advanced, as large as the three major ones. Ones, but they're still pretty advanced. So for example, up here is what we call the Oxus Valley civilization. The tenable term used by archaeologists are the Bactrian margiana archaeological complex. You don't have to know this, okay, it's called BMAC. What makes visualisation important is it interacts. It interacts with the steps people, okay, called the azmaininal culture.

Prof. Jiang  5:37  
So as you can see, Venus Valley civilization through its partners, the Oxus Valley Civilization and its colonies over here, now trade with the entire world. There's no piece of the Western world in its Valley Civilization does not touch Does that make sense? So this is a world about 2500 to 2000 BCE. It's a world that's heavily interconnected, and there are two major sources of demand. The Egyptians are extremely wealthy, and they want these valuable jewellery and handicrafts for their burials. Okay, that's one source of heavy, demand. The main source of demand is actually Mesopotamia, where the city states of Sumer are fighting wars against each other, and in wars, bronze makes a huge difference, because bronze armour is more it's much more stronger than copper armour. Okay, so these two places are driving demand, and as such, the Indus Valley Civilization is growing wealthy through trade. Does that make sense? Any questions so far before I continue? Okay, so even though the Indus Valley Civilization is connected with Egypt and Mesopotamia. It's a radically different civilization. Okay, so the first thing that makes indiscipline civilization interesting is it's a huge area. It's actually in terms of size, larger than Egypt and Mesopotamia combined. It has a population of, at its peak, about 5 million people. So this is a huge area. What's really interesting is we have found no evidence of any organised warfare in this region during this time. The reason why is this region is connected through trade. Okay, so what we have found is five major urban centres in the inner Valley civilization. And these urban centres you can consider to be what we call value adding, processing. Centres. These are urban centres that specialise in taking raw goods like metals and agricultural products and turning them into finished products, like jewellery, handicrafts to be shipped, to be traded with, mainly Mesopotamia, but also Egypt and possibly China as well. It also goes north to the Oxus Valley civilization, which then trades with the steppe people, the engine of culture, okay, what we know as the yamnaya people, all right. So this trade network, it's very, very complex, and everyone is involved in some capacity in this trade network. Okay, so that's the first thing that's interesting about the Indus Valley Civilization. They trade internally peacefully. They trade externally peacefully as well. We have absolutely no evidence that they ever had organised warfare. We have actually no evidence that they have any intention of organised warfare, meaning we have not found any weapons. We have found tools. We found hunting weapons. We have not found, like maybe armour and helmets. Okay, yeah,

Prof. Jiang  9:34  
yeah, great question. So how do we know there's no organised warfare? So we know there's not organised warfare in Mesopotamia and other places because, because of what, of what we have dug up. So we look at cities, we see parts of the city that have been built on top of or destroyed, meaning, there might have been some fires, or there might have been some warfare, okay, but with, with these five urban centres. That we've dug up, we have found them pretty intact, meaning they were not built on top of or they were not destroyed during the when they were around. So that's first major piece of evidence. The second major piece of evidence is we've dug up their graves. So if you look at maybe the civilizations of the angioma culture or Mesopotamia, they tend to bury warriors with their weapons. Okay, so, you know, helmets and armour, but when we fuck up the IVC culture people, first of all, we don't find a distinct cast of warriors. Also, we don't find any helmets or armour or weapons, okay, so that's what led us to believe they don't engage in organised warfare. But there's also evidence to suggest our evidence is not solid, okay, the first piece of evidence is they don't bury their dead. These people don't have a tradition of burying their dead. Some are buried, okay, but they but not everyone is buried. Second of all, we don't know where they buried their dead. We assume they buried their dead in the cities, but that may not be true, okay? So the evidence leans towards they were peaceful civilization, but as we just as we dig up more and more over time, we may discover this was not true, okay, but the right of the evidence suggests they were peaceful. And also, what's really important about the IVC in this Valley civilization is this is a new discovery. We've only known about them for the past 100 years. So what's interesting is the Indians themselves never knew they existed. It was the British who discovered these cities and started the work in archaeology to start to reconstruct their civilization. Okay, all right, but thanks for the question. Okay, so as I said, what's the first thing that's interesting about the civilization is it was, it was relatively peaceful, okay, compared with what's happening in Mesopotamia. The second thing that was interesting for us is, and surprising is, for a very large civilization, they are egalitarian, okay, meaning, in Mesopotamia, when we look at these old cities, ur and Uruk, there were these huge palaces and temples which suggested a culture of power in the priesthood and in The King, okay. But when we look at these five urban centres of the IBC, there are no there are no palaces, there are no Temples, okay, in fact, these cities are extremely well designed. There are these walls around the city. And then as you go into the city, you're able to access every single part of the city. But if you were to go into a city saying Sumer, if you go into the city, you're only able to access the temple or the palace. Okay, so authority is centralised, and in Sumer, whereas authority is sort of decentralised in the IVC Now here's a question, if we know, if we suspect, they are not engaged in warfare, why do they have walls? Well, there are a lot of walls inside these cities. Why they're walls? Can anyone guess? Okay, customs, taxes, okay. Meaning this is, again, a value added adding process centre, and the way they survive economically is by collecting tolls and customs on people who trade. The way they collect taxes is, when you enter the city, you have to go to the customs house, and then you pay whatever is required of you, and then you can access a city, okay? And that's the way they centralise, centrally controlled the economy and trade in the IBC. These cities are amazing. These are the first people to invent the sea toilet, the private sea toilet. This is about the year 2800 BCE, okay, so if you enter the cities, you'll find that in private homes, everyone has a private toilet, and then the faeces is put into a sewage system and the water flushes it out. Okay, that's pretty amazing. These are people who are very concerned about the well being of. All its citizens. So when we look at skeletal remains through DNA analysis, we've discovered the majority of the people ate about the same high quality of food. There wasn't these disparities between people as you would find in other civilizations, at least half the people we think live past the age of 55 that was an amazing achievement back then. In terms of innovation, they have reservoirs. They also have public baths. They also had really amazing things called wind towers. I'm not sure if you've studied these wind towers, but they're basically air conditioners. What they do is, these are high towers, and there is a hole on top, right. So what happens is, the higher the air is, the cooler it is, right? So this wind that's cool gets trapped into the wind tower, it comes down and it pushes out the hot air from the other side, and this is what cools the houses in the summer, okay? And this is a pretty advanced technology. Another really cool thing about the IVC is, even though it covers a huge area, they have standardised weights and measurements. Okay, they have standardised weights and measurements, which means that every brick that they have is the same size, which means that their buildings, their structures, are extremely stable and resilient. That's why 5000 years later, we still have their cities intact. You can actually go to the cities and live in them. That's how that's how stable the technology was. Okay, so this is a pretty advanced civilization. Unfortunately, we don't know what their writing system is, okay. So if they had writing, and we don't, we can't know for sure if they had writing, it was like Chinese in the ideogram language, meaning it is not phonological. They're speaking the spoken language is not the same as their written language. In other words, it is impossible for us to decipher their written language. We don't have that many artefacts of writing. We have seals with characters written on them, but we don't have anything else. And the reason could be, you look at Egypt, they use Papyrus, okay, and Papyrus is stable, or it keeps in a dry Egyptian air, okay. If you look at Sumerian culture, Mesopotamian culture, they use cuneiform on clay, tabage, which keeps forever, okay. But if they had a writing system, and they did write, it would be on palm leaves, which degrades very easily in the jungle ear. So we don't have access to their writing. This is problematic because without access to the writing, we don't have access to their religion. We don't know what the religion is. And one thing that you've learned in this class that's very important is religion or mythology. It is the operating system of the culture. It is the collective consciousness, the collective worldview, that gives life to their culture. It explains why they do what they do, and unfortunately, we don't know their religion. But so it's a complete mystery to archaeologists, to scholars, as to why this very advanced civilization was very peaceful and very egalitarian. We only speculate Any questions so far before I continue? Okay, so I'm going to speculate as to why they were peaceful in egatarian

Prof. Jiang  19:13  
so what? So again, the key is to religion. What is the religion? Because that will give us clues as to their mentality, their value system, right? We know that the Mesopotamian people, their religion, focus on struggle and achievement. We know that the Egyptians, their religion focus on the afterlife. Okay, this life that we live, is we? It? The what? What's important is not the here and now. What's important is what happens afterwards. Okay, that's that's why the Egyptians built the pyramid. That's why they focus so much on funeral rights and on burial goods. All right, so there had to be religion in the IVC. Azmain That was different from the belief system in Sumer in Egypt, that made it into a peaceful and Agatha and civilization, okay, all right. So what is this religion, and why were they different? My speculation is this. The key is to understand that this is a civilization based on trade, and they've been traders ever since they were born as a culture, meaning they were trading for at least 7000 8000 years before they became a civilization. And if you're a trader, first of all, you're able to access the entire world. So we know for a fact they traded with Sumer and the Persian Gulf States, because we have, we have artefacts from the IBC in these places. Okay, we know for a fact, we can speculate it. They also traded with Egypt and with China, just based on their technology and their trade networks. So this is a civilization based on trade, and as traders, they're able to see what's going on in Mesopotamia and Egypt. They know they built the pyramids in Egypt. They know there's massive warfare in Sumer and I would think that if you were a traitor and you saw these things, you wouldn't be impressed, okay, in fact, you might be disgusted, especially by the warfare in Mesopotamia this idea called the dialectic, right? And I think this is a very important idea for us to appreciate how history is often driven by the idea of the dialectic. So an example that we have in today's world is, you look at Japan and China. Okay, these are two wrathy, different societies that are next to each other. And the question then is, why they still different? I think the answer is because Japan knows China very well, and a lot of cultural practice Japan developed over over the centuries have been response to what they see as failings or successes in Chinese culture. Okay, another example that Doug will appreciate is Canada, United States. The United States is probably the most belligerent nation in the world, okay, they cannot keep their hands off anything. And then you go North Canada, and you know Canada, United States here the world's longest border. Basically, Canadians are cousins of the of the Americans, okay? I mean, like, there's really no difference. We speak the same language with the same cultural practices. But while Americans are the most belligerent nation ever in human history, Canadians invented peacekeeping, okay, the idea, like nations should strive for meditate, for mediation and and peace, okay? And I think a lot of Canada, a lot of Canadian values, especially, especially its political system, is in response to what it believes to be failings and successes in the American model, okay? You also have New Zealand and Australia. So there are many different examples of the dialectic going on in our global political systems, and I believe that's what happened with the IBC, where these traders saw what's happening in Egypt and saw what's happened in Mesopotamia, and they were kind of disgusted, especially by all this warfare in Mesopotamia, okay? Warfare back then was pretty awful, and so in Mesopotamia, the way they fight is they fight with these clay bullets, okay, and you take, you take a slingshot and you throw it at someone, and these things kill, they hurt. So think of David and Goliath. Okay? And if you're a traitor, you know, you'll see this warfare going on. You'll see people being beheaded. And why are they doing this? They're doing it in the name of God. Okay, every city state has a patron god that it believes it must defend and honour and protect. And whenever there's a dispute, it's because they feel their god has been dishonoured by another city state. So they will go to war and they kill each other, okay? And again, if you're a traitor and you see this, you don't think this is a good thing. And you go to Egypt and you see these pyramids, and these pyramids are, again, extremely impressive, but same time, you also see the consequences of these pyramids, which is just massive inequality, massive corruption, just massive waste. All right, so I think that by trade. With these two civilizations and other civilizations, it reinforces the deep cultural values of the IVC people and it and it basically compels them towards peace and egalitarianism. Okay, that's what I believe happened. All right. Now you could there. There are other arguments. For example, maybe these people are just genetically peaceful and egalitarian, but I've made the argument in this class that from the author of early human history, we were peaceful and egalitarian people, but different geographic circumstances change our outlook. Okay? So, for example, the people in the steppes, who we call the Amaya people, because of the grasslands, because it is such a poor and rugged and unforgiving environment, they're forced to be cattle ranchers. They're forced to engage in cattle rating, okay? And over time, their culture became very aggressive, expansionist and opportunistic. Opportunistic just means they'll do whatever it needs to survive. If they face a they'll trade with people if it, if it's that, if that's what benefits them, they'll kill people. That's what benefits them. They are not that moral, okay? They're very optimistic, opportunistic. And I remember, as I said, these people with their cultural values would go in and conquer all of Europe about 200 300 years, okay? And they will call the Anaya people back in the steps these Yana people continue to evolve over time and over time, they became even more aggressive, more expansionist and more opportunistic, okay, eventually the Mongols, Genghis Khan and Mongols will come from the civilization. Okay, so that's my argument to you, and again, it's my speculation. It is because of their inaction of other cultures that convince them to pursue a peaceful and egalitarian lifestyle. Now, there are still inequalities in IBC. We know there are classes, we know there's wealth inequality, but relative to Mesopotamia and Egypt, it was a real it was a relatively peaceful and egalitarian society, okay, okay, any questions before I continue?

Prof. Jiang  27:45  
Other civilizations. Okay, so the question is, where they invaded the IVC, okay? Because, as we discussed in previous classes, when you're peaceful in Agatha and society. We know that old Europe, okay, before the Anna invasion, was a peaceful and Agatha society, you will eventually get invaded by other cultures, okay? And for the longest time, there was a theory out there, first proposed by basically the Nazis, okay, called the Indo area Aryan invasion. And the idea is you have these white people sweep into India, conquer the people and introduce civilization to the Indians. Okay, this is called the Indo Aryan invasion, even though this theory has been discredited, there is a slight kernel of truth to this theory, okay, which I will explain to you. Okay, so let me explain this theory and what happened. So you have the IVC, which is a very advanced civilization. The problem with civilization is their entire economy is basically based on trade. Right now we know in about there's something called the 4.2 kilo year event, which is, which is basically a massive climate change around the world. And the four, two point year, Kill Kill, your event brought basically, an end to the Egypt Old Kingdom, right? It also brought an end to what we call the Akkadian Empire in Sumer. A man named Sargon of Akkad conquered all of Sumer and built the Akkadian Empire. And because of these, all this drought, because of climate change, there, his empire collapsed. Okay, so in other words, trade networks that the IBC heavily dependent on start to collapse. Okay? And as a result. World, their cities now, which are dependent on trade, start to depopulate. Meaning a lot of a lot of people start to return to the farms where they are from. They start also migrating to the rest of India to the Ganges, okay as well. Because of this climate change, the IVC itself is being affected heavily. Okay, so there's drought. The rivers are drying up. Remember, like the Indus Valley Civilization is called Indus Valley Civilization because it's dependent on the Indus River among other rivers. Okay? So there are some drought issues. Also, what we learned in this class is, over time, all civilizations face eternal tensions. Okay? And these eternal tensions can be divided into two major tensions. The first tension is a conflict among the classes, okay? So the idea of elite overproduction, you have too many people striving for limited status, right? And the conflict is mainly between upper nobility and lower nobility, okay? And so here in the IVC, we can imagine the conflict might be, might be between these families that are large training houses against families that are small training houses, okay, or it could be like internal, internally among the families, okay, but there's gonna be some social tension going on. The other social tension that we discuss is the idea of rat utopia, where and especially conflict between the old and the young. Again, the problem the IBC is you have too many old people living for too long, which means less opportunities arise for achievement for the young. Okay, and that creates conflict as well. So what we believe that it also is that during this time there was massive social tension within the IBC, and some people would even say it was a revolutionary time, okay, when old customs and old Moors were being overthrown, okay? Because of climate change, the people in the engine of a culture now are forced to leave the steps because the steps are no longer suitable for their lifestyle. Okay? So they push into the Oxus Valley civilization, and over time, they will assimilate it into themselves. Okay? So the idea here is, this is not an intentional invasion, okay? It's not like you have a general army and they go into the access value civilization and then they conquer it, okay? It's more opportunistic, where at first you're trading, and as the oxygen stability declines, because of trade training networks, because of the client trading networks, they will start to come in and push out the people. And again, the culture of the of these people, it's very aggressive. So there are two strategies that they were employed. The first strategy is they might wipe out villages. Okay, these villages are depopulated anyway, they come in and they wipe everyone out, which means they kill everyone. The second strategy is to come in, they'll kill all the men and marry all the woman. Okay. And again, this is a gradual process of assimilation, cultural conquest, but it's not a military invasion. Does that make sense now, after the internal culture and the oxis culture merge, this creates a neutralisation, a new culture called proto indo European, okay? Why is it called that? Because now what they will do is they'll go south to the Iranian plateau, and they will become, eventually, the Persian people, okay? And they will invent a new religion that becomes a great world religion called Zoroastrianism. Zoroastrianism comes from this merger of the Polo Iranian culture into the Iranian plateau. This is a process we call synchronisation, by the way, synchronisation where two major religions merge and share the same gods. There are three distinct characteristics of a proto indo Iranian culture that becomes salient in the new zoroasin religion. The first is the use of a ritual drape called Soma. He. Okay, Soma again, again. You don't have to know this, but I'm just telling you the cultural impact. Okay. Soma is comes from the proto indo, Iranian culture. Second is the worship of fire. Okay? Fire Rituals. Fires are used heavily in the religious practice, okay? And as we know, Zoroastrianism does use a lot of fire rituals. The last is a horse sacrifice, meaning that warriors are buried with their horses. And so this is an emphasis on the warrior culture of these people. Okay, so that's what happens in Iran. They become the Persian people. We will discuss the Persian people at a later point. Okay, not now, but I just want you to know this would happen. They these people will also push into the IVC and over time, and this is a process that takes about five years. They'll push out the indigenous people, okay, and then indigenous people move into South India, where they merge with the folk culture, the animism of the local people there, okay, and guys, what's amazing about this is this process will create two major world religions that are still influential today. Okay, the first we know as Hinduism. Hinduism is the merger, the synchronisation, of proto indo Iranian religion with the local IVC religion, okay, and as the IVC pushes itself, this will create a new religion called Buddhism, okay, all right, but Buddhism is Just the major one. There are others that are being created as well through this process, right? The others are being Jainism

Prof. Jiang  37:08  
and shikism. And again, these are the major ones, okay, that are still with us today, like, basically this process created 1000s, 10s of 1000s of new religions. All right, so this is what happened. It's not a military conquest, it's not an invasion, but it's a process of, you could argue cultural genocide, okay, where new people come in and over time, because they are aggressive expansion opportunities to culture, they will eventually take over the culture. Okay, mainly by marrying the local woman, because the people who come in are basically, basically males. Okay? They will marry the local woman and they will either kill or enslave the local man, okay? And this is where we get the caste system from in India, all right, so this is a more subtle explanation of the Indo Aryan invasion theory, and this is what scholars today accept happen again. What's really important is to avoid generalisations and simplifications, because this is a process that took about 200 years, 20 years, and there are different strategies employed by different people. Some of it was peaceful, some of it was violent. It was a mix. It's hard for us to generalise, but the overall, general fact is the creation of Hinduism and Buddhism, which now are the two major world religions. Okay, any questions, but thanks for the question. Nico, any more questions before I move on?

Prof. Jiang  38:54  
Actually, you can add kids, because I have some time to rest. All right, so first question has to do

Speaker 1  39:02  
with the that the IBC were peaceful, egalitarian,

Prof. Jiang  39:08  
so on, yep, but at the same time you're a trading nation, that's right. So I'm

Speaker 1  39:16  
just wondering, as traders, quite often, trading involves empire, at least, involves every single moment. Of force on your side to protect yourself, competitors or pirates or whatever. Is there any evidence that while peaceful, they still have a certain amount of might on their side?

Prof. Jiang  39:37  
Okay, so that's a great question. Doug, okay, so when you trade, there's always a problem of piracy and banana tree, right? So how do you protect yourselves against that? Okay, we know, like Mesopotamia became violent because it was, it was being surrounded by violence, right? The nomads in Arabia, the nomads in the zagos Mountains, were all pretty violent people. You had to be because. Survive, you have to be aggressive and opportunistic. So how is it the sorry, the IBC was able to be peaceful yet the same time trade. And the solution is they set up colonies and trade partners in order to facilitate trade. Okay? So we know, for example, they traded heavily with the oxen civilization. There were lots of trade agreements, long term trade agreements. We also know they had a colony within the oxen Valley Civilization, okay, we know they traded heavily with a place called Dillman, which is now modern day Borat. So these are their main trading partners. And so you would think their trading partners were the ones who were responsible for local security. We can also suspect they also went to other places as well to seek new trading partners. What's important about this world is this is still a relatively peaceful world. There's tremendous violence in Sumer, but that's still rare, right? And there are some unique characteristics about Sumer that make it a violent people. But in this world, and this is about 5000 years ago, people are still relatively peaceful. Organised warfare is still new and rare in the human experience, and that's why I think the experience in Mesopotamia was so shocking. Because the idea that you could sack a city, the idea that you could kill hundreds of people at one time that's like bringing a massive culture taboo. Okay, so I think culturally speaking, people at this time prefer to trade rather than to fight. And because they've been trading for such a long time, we're talking like, you know, they start maybe trading about 7000 6000 BCE, they have a lot of trading networks around the world. They have partners who can trust basically, okay, any more questions before I continue, maybe

Unknown Speaker  42:10  
one more, but I might be anticipating

Prof. Jiang  42:15  
a little bit. Yeah, I'm actually moving into Buddhism. But any more questions before I continue? Okay, so the last thing I want to discuss is, what is the legacy of the IBC? They were great civilization. Are they completely lost to us? What is your contribution to Western civilization? So the legacy of Egypt? Are the pyramids, right? We know Egypt because of the pyramids, the legacy of Mesopotamia. Are many. They met a lot of things like writing cuneiform. Also, they introduced world literature, right? The Epic of Gilgamesh. What I want to argue now is the legacy of the IVC is in their special spiritual practice, okay? Their spiritual values. So if you look at Hinduism, okay, it's very different from Zoroastrianism, and that's kind of strange, because they're both proto indo Iranian religions, right? But let's look very quickly at Hinduism. Hinduism believes the reality we live in is false. The real reality is called Brahman, the true absolute reality. So we live in this false reality. As we live in this false reality, we collect karma. Karma is basically just an accounting of your good deeds and your bad deeds. And guess what? Throughout your life, you're going to accumulate more bad deeds than you are than your good deeds. And your karma means your soul, called the Atman, is stuck here. Okay, because the Brahman, it's pure. You can you can only return to Brahman, to heaven if you're a pure person. So it will take many lifetimes for You to cleanse your soul, your admin, in order to return to the Brahman. This process of cleansing your soul is what they call Dharma, okay? Dharma the right path. If you if the Dharma over 1000s of lifetimes, if your dharma is correct, if you achieve Dharma, you will achieve what is called moksha, which is basically liberation. Moksha releases you your soul from the physical world and allows you to return to the Brahman, where you will live eternally in paradise. Okay, that is the one of the basic ideas of Hinduism. And. Other really important idea of Hinduism is this entire process is being meditated or, sorry, mediated, or gatekeeped by priests called Brahmins. Okay, so you think being a good person is enough. No, it's not. You have to listen to the Brahmin, because only the Brahmin understands Dharma, and depending on who you are, your Dharma will be different. So in Hinduism, there is a hierarchy at the very top are, of course, the priest the Brahmin, because they have access to spiritual knowledge. Below them are the warriors and the kings, and then below them are the farmers and the merchants who keep the economy running, and at the very bottom are the servants and the labourers. Okay, now what's what's really interesting about the system is this system can be differentiated by the colour of one's skin, right? Because, remember the Polo indo Iranians, they have white skin, the IVC culture, the people who call the pro dominions. No, sorry, the pro germanians, okay, they have darker skin. So the IVC people of the lower class don't intermix with the pro indo Iranians. And so basically the Polo indo Iranians accumulated and centralised power through the idea of Hinduism. Okay, they're the priest class. So that's a basic theory of Hinduism. And again, Hinduism is an extremely complex religion. I don't want to oversimplify it, but I have no choice, because I want to explain the differences. Okay, so in this system, who's really unhappy now in this system, which group of people are, like, very upset with this system? Can you guys? Can you, can you guys? Echo, can you, can you apply what we've learned into the semester and answer the question all these four groups, who's the unhappiest and who most wants change or revolutionary change, excuse me, the lower nobility, And who's the lower lower nobility in this system? You?

Prof. Jiang  47:50  
The Kings, okay? Doesn't make sense. The Kings, actually, in the system, are the lower nobility, the upper nobility of the Brahmins. Because the upper it, because it's the Brahmins who control access to the Brahman, okay? And so the Kings must obey the priests. So the Kings aren't happy with this. And so for this conflict, you have the creation of Buddhism, right? Remember Suharto Gotama, who was considered the first, first Buddha. He was actually a prince before he became the Buddha, and the man most responsible for spreading Buddhism in India and around the world. His name is Ashoka. He was the King, the emperor of the Mauryan Empire, and he was the one who introduced institutionalised Buddhism as state religion who sponsors, sponsored mission projects to China, to Greece, to Egypt. Okay, so these rulers don't like Hinduism because they see the Brahman class as a threat to their power. So Buddhism follows this system, except for one major difference. You don't need the Brahmins to access nirvana. You don't need the Brahmins to access spiritual enlightenment. You can do it by yourself, through spiritual guidance by monks. That's a major difference. As you can see, Buddhism is, in many respects, a revolutionary religion to overthrow the power of the Brahmin class. And in response to Buddhism, what did the Brahmins do? You guys know? They create the caste system. After the rise of Buddhism, Hinduism started to implement what we call today the caste system, which is say, these classes. US must separate from each other. They are not allowed to intermingle. They're not even allowed to touch each other. They're not even allowed to touch each other's food. Okay, these two at the very bottom are what we call today the untouchables. My system was developed by the Hindu priests, the Brahmins, in response to a threat of Hinduism. Now, over time, because Hinduism, like the proto Iranian people, are aggressive, expansionist, opportunistic, they will defeat Buddhism in the struggle. Okay? And the one way, one really important way they defeat Buddhism, is by adopting most of Buddhism's practices, okay, so like yoga, meditation and also Nirvana, okay, the Hindu Brahmins will adopt whatever is popular in Buddhism. Another thing that the Hindu priest will do is they will start, basically assimilating other religions as well. So most Indians throughout its history believe in their folk, local folk, Lord gods, right? Eventually, all these gods will be assimilated into the Hindu hierarchy. That's why you have like a million gods in the Hindu religion, okay? Because they were, all over time, assimilated into the hierarchy. And obviously these gods are lesser gods, and the higher gods, the Holy Trinity, are Brahman gods. Okay, all right, so now it stands for Doug to ask his question about Buddhism before I continue go back to the

Unknown Speaker  51:46  
point about the IBC of us not knowing their

Unknown Speaker  51:57  
religion. Yeah. So way, way back

Unknown Speaker  51:59  
a month ago, you were talking about indo, European languages,

Prof. Jiang  52:05  
that's right, and there's been a lot of archaeological or That's right,

Speaker 1  52:08  
yep, there's been a similar process, process looking at the different Indian religions like Hinduism, Buddhism, Jainism, yeah. Is there a certain common denominator that perhaps could be

Prof. Jiang  52:24  
traced back to the IVC? Okay, great question. Okay, so what is the IVC religion, the portal religion? Okay, I want to make an argument. And again, it's a speculation. It's a very strange argument, and most scholars probably will not agree. I think the religion of the IVC is proto Buddhism. And the reason why is, if you look at Zoroastrianism, and you look at proto indo Iranian religion, there are a lot of similarities, okay, and Zoroastrianism actually fits into the larger proto indo European religion framework. When you learn Hinduism, you've got this strange idea. You believe in karma, Dharma, reincarnation, impermanence, Brahma, the ultimate reality. Like like this is not part of the proto indo, European religion and anywhere. Okay, so at the same time, Hinduism, Buddhism, Jainism and Shiism all share this fundamental belief in the world, that this world is a false reality. It's a reality created by our false beliefs. And if we learn to tame our emotions, if we learn to see the underlying reality governing all human structure, then we will be released from this world. Okay, now, where would that come from? That must have come from the IVC, because there will be no other place. Also, it explains why these religions have such huge followings in India, right? They don't have any followings anywhere else, okay? Like Hinduism is basically localised to India, so it's Jainism, so is shikhanism. So they are appealing to a fundamental sense of the world among Indians, they're basically appealing to a nostalgia, right? And where is this nostalgia from? It must be from the IVC. So I would make that argument. I would believe, I would bet, that if we were able to construct the religion of the IVC, the poor religion, we would see a proto Buddhism, okay, the beginnings of Buddhism, it would be very different, okay, because Buddhism evolved over 1000 years. But the underlying assumptions about the world basically the idea of oneness, okay, you. It the idea of false reality. I think these two ideas would be very apparent in the IVC as they are apparent now in all four major Indian religions, Hinduism, Buddhism, Jainism and shikism. Do you want to continue or No, no, no, no, I'm finished. But like, do you want to respond to my argument? Okay? Are you guys following along? Does this make sense for you guys? I

Prof. Jiang  55:43  
in fact, I would argue that we as humans fundamentally have a nostalgia for these two ideas, oneness and false reality. Okay? Because if you look at the West, okay, if you look at us today, there are two ideas the most powerful today in western civilization. The first idea is Plato's Allegory in the cave, right? The idea that we live in a shallow world and the truth is out there, but we have to seek it. It's a very powerful idea, right? And it's very similar, by the way, to the ideas found in Hinduism and Buddhism, okay? The algo the cave, is the first powerful idea. And then the second powerful idea is the idea of the Second Coming, the return of Jesus. Because what does the return of Jesus signify? It signifies paradise on earth. It signifies the destruction of our current reality and the replacement of a new reality that creates oneness, completeness and wholeness on Earth. So in many ways, this is very similar to what the Indians are proposing as well. So what this is saying is, at a fundamental level, everyone has a nostalgia for a distant past. And what is this distant past? The distant past is the idea of animism. So remember, 10,000 years ago, 20,000 years ago, we were in the ice age. We were hunter gatherers, and the way we saw the world was very different from the way we see the world today. Okay, back then, if you were a hunter gatherer, you could only think you were the same as the tree or as the animal, okay? It's idea of oneness. We're no different. We're all part of the life cycle. We're all part of Mother Nature, okay, the mother goddess, all right. We also believe we inhabit different realities at the same time, right? We live in this world, which is the material reality. We were also inhabiting the spiritual reality as well. And what we do spiritually matters a lot more than what we do materially. Okay? So we can hunt and kill animals, as long as we pay the proper respects to the animals we kill, as long as we contribute spiritually to the cycle, cycle of life and death. Okay, so I think that's where Buddhism comes from. It comes from animism, this Buddhism, this Buddhism, became reinforced and became much more concrete because it was experiencing a reality in Mesopotamia and Egypt that was abhorrent to the people experiencing Okay, war goes against the human Experience inequality and corruption in ways, goes against the human experience. We fundamentally believe this to be evil and wrong. Okay, so that is my argument about The IBC. Any questions? Do

Prof. Jiang  59:28  
any comments?

Prof. Jiang  59:43  
Circumstances. Okay, that's a great question. Do I believe that human nature is fundamentally benevolent? I don't believe human nature is benevolent. I believe humans naturally seek a spiritual understanding of the world. Think humans want to know why. Why are we here? Where are we going? Where do we come from? Okay, we want to know why we also we're also curious. We want to explore the world. Okay, so I think trade is not a new invention. I think it's a very inherent thing to human nature. I think the idea of globalisation, this was a globalised world, like 5000 years ago, okay, extremely sophisticated, complex, globalised world. So I think that's what makes us fundamentally, fundamentally human, okay? And you can say this a good thing or a bad thing, and I would say, Well, it depends on the circumstance, right? But I think what drives us as humans is our curiosity and our our imagination. That's what I think being human is. And sometimes this is a good thing, sometimes this is a bad thing, okay, sometimes in the IVC, this will lead to peace and egalitarianism, but this also is what drives the idea of the Second Coming, which is what's driving the conflict in the Middle East today. Okay, so it depends on the context. It depends on the circumstance. If this curiosity, this imagination, is channelled effectively, then I think that's a good thing, which channel opportunistically, then it's a bad thing. Thanks for the question. Any more questions?

Prof. Jiang  1:01:39  
Okay, so this ends our Bronze Age unit. Okay, so we looked at the three major Bronze Age civilizations, Egypt, Mesopotamia and IVC. Next class, we'll start the Bible. Okay, the Hebrew Bible. All right.

