Prof. Jiang  0:00  
Okay, good morning. So we are doing Augustine today, and even though Augustine is not as famous as some other thinkers we've looked at this semester, he's actually very important, because he's actually the intellectual architect of the Catholic Church, and in this world, the Catholic Church is the largest organisation. It has 1.5 billion members, and it's been around for almost 2000 years. So and Augustine really is the individual who conceptualised the idea of the Catholic Church. So first, to understand what the Catholic Church is and why it's endured for so long, I want to introduce a new idea to you call the end of history. This is a concept that was introduced by an American State Department official named Francis Fukuyama at the end of the Cold War, when the Berlin Wall, Berlin Wall fell. And his argument is that history has been a struggle of ideology. We've had paganism, we've had communism, we've had socialism, we had democracy. And through this dialectic, through this constant struggle of ideas, we have now reached the end of history, where liberal consumer democracy is the best idea. Not only is it the best idea, but it's the perfect idea that will allow us to endure for the rest of history. Therefore it is the end of history. Now, of course, we know this idea is wrong. What's in what's interesting for us is this has been a recurring theme in human history where every major political leader who's coming to power has announced that this is the end of history, that all of history has led to this point where I am now ruler, and from now on, we can enjoy paradise on earth. Okay, so let's look at some examples that we looked at this semester. First example is King David. Right? Remember that we discussed that when King David came into power, he sponsored the writing of the Bible as an apology to explain why he's king. And we also looked at the story constructed by the yahwehs, how Yahweh the god, he builds the world because he's a poet, because he's lonely, and his history is a journey of Yahweh trying to find a good friend that could accompany Him for eternity. And it turns out, eventually, he finds David. And so when he finds David, he anoints the house of David as the permanent rulers of our world. Okay, so that's the Bible. Then you have Augustus, who sponsored the writing of the Ennead. And remember the Ennead? It's really the journey of the Trojan Herald Aeneas as he leaves Troy, and he is destined by the gods to found the city of Rome and the Roman Empire. And why does he do this? Because eventually Rome will become the greatest empire on Earth, with Augustus as the first emperor. And so that's the end of history. Once the Roman Empire is constructed, then peace, eternal peace is now, is now on Earth, okay? And then you had Constantine, who was Emperor after he fought a brutal civil war to reunite the Roman Empire. And once he rebuilt the Roman Empire, he converted to Christianity, and he organised, in 325 the Council of Nicaea, where they agreed to introduce the idea of the Godhead. Remember, we discussed last class how the idea of the Godhead, it marks a major intellectual revolution in human history, it's the beginning of monotheism. It's the idea that God is both everything and nothing, which is also the idea of empire.

Prof. Jiang  4:36  
There's also a major civil war after Kazin dies, another Roman Emperor Philistines comes with a throne, and in 380 he issued something called the Edict of Thessalonica, which established Christianity as the official religion of the Roman Empire. And when he does that, they begin to root out. Of paganism and other religions. And at this point, you can also think this is the end of history. We've discovered Christianity, which will make paradise on earth. The problem, though, of course, is that in 410 Rome is sacked, and this is a problem. This creates something called a crisis of faith. Why? Because a lot of people believe that Rome was sacked by the barbarians, by the Visigoths, precisely because Rome converted to Christianity before Rome was a pagan society, and they believed that by converting to Christianity, two things happened. The first thing happened was the old gods, Jupiter and the others became furious at the Romans and were determined to punish the Romans by sending the barbarians. Okay, also they believe that Christianity, it's a religion of slaves. It teaches us to be merciful and kind and compassionate. But that's not the way the world works. Okay? So now you have a crisis of faith, and the very authority of the Catholic Church is challenged. And so at this point, Augustine, who is a bishop of the Catholic Church in Northern Africa, he comes up with this theory that establishes the Catholic Church as beyond the world. Okay, so other individuals have introduced the idea of end history. But what auxin does is he takes the Catholic church out of history. Okay, out of history. What does that mean? It means that history is really about mortals battling for power, but the Catholic Church, it is a representative of God on earth, therefore it will remove itself from history. You guys can battle it out, but we will always be the representative of God on earth. Okay? And to establish this, he writes a book called City of God. He talks about two cities. You have Rome, which is the earthly city. It's a city of power and greed and the self. And then you have a city called Jerusalem, which is the spiritual city. And it's the city of the of God, of spirit, of selflessness, of paradise, okay, and the Catholic Church will always be centred in Jerusalem. And if you follow the Catholic Church, if you're obedient to God, then your spirit can also enter Jerusalem. Otherwise, you'll always be trapped in Rome. Okay?

Prof. Jiang  8:01  
What he also does that's very important is by establishing his theory, he solves a major problem for political leaders. Remember, before David, Augustine, Constantine, whenever they came into power, they faced three major problems. The first is legitimacy. Why You the King? The second is cultural cohesion. How do you let the people behind a common ideology? The third problem was cultural differentiation. Why are you different from other people? Okay, and what the Catholic Church, under Augustine proposes is we'll solve all three problems for you. We, the Catholic Church, will give you legitimacy, because you are the representative of God on earth, okay? And that's why, even though, in that in the following few centuries, there will always be power shifts. The Catholic Church will always be at the centre of these power shifts, because they are the ones who are able to provide authority and legitimacy whoever comes into power, like, for example, Charlemagne, okay, so that's what Augustine is proposing. So today, what I want to look at are some of Augustine's writings to see what is the ideology or doctrine that underlies the Catholic Church. This is important for us because it is Augustine's ideology that will drive European history for the next 1000 years. In fact, I will make the argument to you today that it is his ideology that will mark the coming of the Dark Ages in Europe, 500 years when society lacked social innovation and you weren't allowed to criticise authority. It okay. So that's the argument to you today, I'll sit over here. Oh, thank you. Okay. All right, yeah, sorry, yeah, this is why I don't use computers. Okay, yeah, it's fine. Okay. All right, so we are going to look at two major works of Augustine. The first is confessions. And confessions is very famous. It's something that most people would have heard of, and it's really the biography Autobiography of Augustine. And in fact, it's considered the first authentic autobiography in the world, and in the story, he talks about his life, where he grows up with a pagan father and a Christian mother named Monica. And in the beginning, he's a very disobedient young man. He refuses to follow the wishes of his mother and refuses Christianity, and he goes on a long journey of youthful sin. Okay? He has a mistress who he doesn't marry. He explores heresies like Neoplatonism and manicism. But then one day, he has a, what we call a Damascus moment, right? God speaks to him and says, Augustine, open the Bible. He opens the Bible. And this starts his religious journey. And at age 42 Augustine becomes the Bishop of hippo and from then, he begins to construct the ideology that will underpin the Catholic Church. Okay, now, for whatever reason, historians think this memoir is authentic, or he's telling the truth, and the one thing that you will learn in life is whenever a politician or powerful individual writes a memoir, it's complete BS, okay. There's something authentic or true about it. So we're going to read a bit of confessions. And this is really the most famous part of the confessions. It's really Augustine's rewriting of a story of the Garden of Eden. Okay, so this is, this is what he says when he's young, a young man or a young boy, I wanted to carry out an act of theft, and did so driven by no kind of need other than my inner lack of any sense of or feeling for justice. Okay? So one thing that he's that he points out over and over again is we are born in sin. We are off sin. We are evil people, okay? And that's why the Catholic Church is important, because only the Catholic Church can steer us into goodness. If left to our own devices, we can only commit sin, and this starts from the womb. Okay? We are born in sin. We are born of sin. I saw something which I had in plan T, of much better quality. My desire was not to enjoy, not what I sought by stealing, but merely excitement of thieving and the doing of what was wrong. Why do we sin? Because we enjoy sinning, because that is our nature. When we steal, it is not because we're hungry or because we need something. It's because we enjoy stealing. It's pure pleasure. There's a pure tree near a vineyard laden with fruit, though attractive in neither colour nor taste. Okay? So again, this is the retelling of the Garden of Eden, where there's a tree of knowledge, right? Well, here there's a pier tree. Okay? To shake the tree, the fruit of the tree and carry off the pears. I in a gang of naughty adolescents set off late at night after we had continued our game in the streets, we carried off a huge load of peers. Okay? So they stole a huge load of peers from someone. It doesn't tell us who, but it's someone, okay. And then they didn't eat the any of the pears. They just gave it to pigs. Okay? They just did this because they enjoyed sinning. Now, okay, let me make a few comments. First of all, we would think this, it's just boys having fun, right? They don't mean any harm by this. They're just playing. They're just being curious, just exploring, which is part of human nature, right? What all this thing is saying is that's exactly the problem. Curiosity can only lead to evil. Exploration can only lead to sin. That's why we come. Sin, because we think curiosity is a good thing when, in fact, it's an evil thing that can will harm, that can only harm others, okay? And the other thing is, this is, this is clearly a retelling of the Garden of Eden story right, where Adam and Eve they eat that fruit. And here what Augustine is saying is, first of all, Adam and Eve are stealing, okay? That is not stealing. Is not a word used in the Bible, but Augustine is saying they are stealing. That's the first thing. Second thing is,

Prof. Jiang  15:53  
Augustine is saying that the stealing was intentional. They knew what they were doing was wrong, but they did it because it felt good. Okay, so this is a radical reconceptualization of the idea of original sin. Remember, Paul introduced the idea of original sin to us. Where? Why did Jesus have to come to redeem us because we disobeyed God in the Garden of Eden, it was a mistake, and Jesus had to pay ransom for that mistake. Okay, that was Paul's argument. What Augustine is saying is something radically different. He's saying that, first of all, we need to make us make a mistake. We are the mistake. All right, we are the ones born to sin, therefore, we will always disobey. And then what else he What else? But what else he's saying is this, and this is really important. This happens in about 350 right? This is about 300 years after Jesus sacrificed himself for us, and he's still sinning. So he is negating the sacrifice of Jesus. Just because Jesus sacrificed himself does not mean we've stopped sinning. In fact, we continue to sin. Okay? So this is a radical reconceptualization of the Christian faith. We are born sinners, and we will always sin unless we are taught to obey God. That was our fundamental mission on earth, to obey God. Okay?

Prof. Jiang  17:55  
Okay, so let's go to the city of God now and again, the City of God becomes the essential blueprint for the building of the Catholic Church. And one thing that he talks a lot about in the city of God is the idea of rape. And so what's happening throughout this time, and what was very common is if a woman were raped out of wedlock, or if, if a woman were raped by her husband, what they will often do is kill themselves. Why? Because the Christian faith taught them that chastity was very important, okay? And if you're the one empire, this is a problem for you, right? Because you can't have women killing themselves because of rape. Rape happens all the time. If women kill themselves, eventually you're gonna have a population implosion, okay? So actually, what Robinson will do is spend a lot of time explaining why rape is, why rape is not a bad thing, okay? So to do so he talks about Lucretia. Lucretia. Remember who Lucretia is? Lucretia. We discussed Lucretia when we discussed the history of the Roman Republic. At first, Rome was a monarchy, and the king, the king's son, he was a sinful person, and he liked to rape other woman. He liked to rape woman, and Lucretia was was famous in Rome for her chastity, for her virtue, so he thought it'd be fun to rape her. After she was raped, she called her husband and her husband's best friend named Lucius Junius, Buddhas together, and she she made them swear that they will avenge her dishonouring, and they did and to make sure that she they would follow out. On this she took out a knife, and she stabbed herself in the heart, killing herself. And this marks the beginning of the Roman Republic. So in the eyes of romance, her death, her suicide, is what gave birth to the Roman Republic. So she's honoured and considered a hero by the Roman people. And what Augustine will say is, No, she's not a hero, because she killed herself, not for the good of Rome, but for her own vanity, for her own pride, for the fact that she lost faith, she was embarrassed, she didn't have the glory of being considered the most chaste and virtuous woman in Rome, and that's why she killed herself. And this is pride, this is arrogance, this is ego, which goes against the will of God. Okay, so let's, let's look at very quickly what he's saying. What he's saying her killing herself for suicide, because, although not adulterous, she had suffered and adulterous embraces was due to the weakness of shame. Okay, the weakness of shame. She died because she felt ashamed, not to the high value she set on chastity. She was ashamed of another foul deed committed on her, even though not with her as a Roman woman excessively eager for honour, pride, that's what killed her, her pride.

Prof. Jiang  21:44  
All right, let me I hate computers, okay, but Christian woman, do not kill themselves. If you are a true Christian, you do not you would never kill yourself. Why? Because murder is a worse crime than rape. Also, rape is something that happens in the mind. It's not real. Christian women do not kill themselves. They have the glory of chastity within them, the testimony of their conscience. They have this in the sight of God, if you were raped, but you need to unite consent to it. Don't worry, because God knows, and so God will forgive, but if you kill yourself, that's committing wrong against God. Okay, so this argument, I mean, it's really gaslighting, okay? And he does this a lot in his in his thing, in his logic, okay, he's really gaslighting. He's making certain points about the nature of humans. Okay, first of all, we, each and every one of us, is God's property. We are not free of ourselves. We are God's property, therefore, when we kill ourselves, we are offending God. Okay, that's the first thing. Second thing that he's saying is we can do no good because we are burdened by our pride in our sin. If we choose to act, we can only do wrong. Okay, so what he's saying is this, if you are walking in the forest and you see a young boy drowning in the lake, don't jump in the lake to save him, because one, you might die, and two, everything is controlled by God, therefore everything has an intention. So when you jump and say the boy, you might be interfering in God's plan. Therefore the only solution to salvation, how do you make yourself good? In the eyes of God, don't do anything. God knows everything. God has a plan. Just obey the will of God. And the will of God means doing nothing. And in fact, doing nothing is the best thing you can do, because if you are born of sin, and you're only capable of sin when you do nothing, you are doing good in the world. Okay, so again, this is gaslighting, but this becomes the doctrine of the Catholic Church, and it begins what we call the Dark Ages, because it forces people, and most people want salvation. Most people want to be good in the eyes of God, it forces people to be passive and obedient and unable to question and explore. Okay, so any questions so far before I move on, you?

Prof. Jiang  25:00  
Okay, let's look at another line from the seat of God. Thus, when men lives by the standard of man and not by the standard of God, he is like the devil. All right. Think about this. When you choose to follow your nature, you are like the devil. It is only by negaining yourself, it is only by denying yourself can you be good? All right, if you trust your instincts, if you trust your intuition, if you use your imagination, you are like the devil. Okay, this is exactly what he's saying with this sentence. The other thing that he does is he's very repetitive, so he'll keep on going like this for a very long time, all right? I mean, this is all just repetition. Even an angel should not have lived by the angel standard, but by God so as to stand firm in the truth and speak the truth that comes from God's truth, not the lie that derives from his own falsehood. Okay, even angels must live by God's standard. So only God has the power to choose. We can choose, but we can only do evil, so we should not choose.

Prof. Jiang  26:14  
So this is a so. So the thing about August that's very important for us to understand is he studied rhetoric, and so he's very good at gaslighting. Okay, so twisting things in order to force your compliance. All right? So he says, when man lives with a standard of truth, he lives not by his own standard, but by God. He's just repeating himself same sentence, but he's repeats of over and over. Okay, so why is he doing this? Why is he doing this? And any thoughts, what is City of God? The City of God? We turn the question back

Speaker 1  26:58  
to you, yeah. Like the one thing I'm curious about, both of the confessions and the City of God, yeah, is that at this point, like,

Prof. Jiang  27:06  
Who is his audience? Who is he writing for? That's a great question. That's exactly it. Who is his audience? Exactly his audience is clearly not for us or ordinary people, because at this time, most people don't read and write, right? So his audience actually for the priesthood, okay? His audience are for those individuals who are about to be anointed by the Catholic Church to preach to the layman. And as a priest, you are forced to encounter a lot of theological issues, right? And so what Augustine is doing when writing statistics of God and confessions is creating a rhetorical manual for the priest to basically gaslight the constituencies. Does that make sense? Okay? So think of this in many ways, as the equivalent of the Confucian classics in China, right? So when, when you apply to become a bureaucrat in China, you have to take the Confucius examinations, right? And how do you pass examinations? By memorising this crap, right? And if you look at it, if you think think about it rhetorically, if you think about the underlying theories, it's really the same thing, the emperor is always, right? Just do what the Emperor wants, right? So this is, this is, in many ways, it's all it is. Is a rhetorical manual that priests have to memorise if they are to become anointed by the church, right? And once you memorise this, then whatever problems that you may encounter, you just recite from this manual, right? And the main argument is, hey, we're born of sin, therefore you can do no good, even by asking questions, you are exposed to the devil in yourself, right? Even by question the church, by asking me this question, you're showing the devil in you and our responsibility the only path, the only path of salvation in this world, is by fighting the devil within us. Okay, so focus your attention on the devil within you. Ignore the fact that the world is corrupt and evil. Ignore the fact that the landlord is exploiting you. Ignore the fact that the Catholic Church is stealing from you, okay, ignore that that doesn't matter. What matters is the internal world in you. Life is a constant struggle against sin, because the devil is in you, and you must purge the devil if you are to find salvation in God. Okay, so that's the logic of the argument. Any questions? No. Okay, are we clear about this? Okay, it's not a sophisticated argument, but it's a clever argument that becomes a basis for the dominance of how the church during the Dark Ages, in the Middle Ages. Right now, what he's going to do, and this is very important, is he's going to analyse the story of Adam and Eve. Okay, he's going to explore why did this happen? Why did Adam and Eve in paradise? Why did they disobey God? All right, so let's, let's look at his logic. It was in secret that the first human beings began to be evil, and the result was that they slipped into open disobedience. Okay, what this is saying is, why do they disobey? Because Eve and Adam conspired in secret against God. Does that make sense? Okay? That's what he's saying. Here. It was in secret, okay? They conspired that the first human beings, Adam and Eve, began to be evil. It was because they talked to each other that they conspired to disobey God, all right, for they would not have arrived at the evil act if an evil will had not preceded it. Why did they do this evil act? Because they themselves were evil. All right, that's important to understand. They were not tricked by the serpent. They were not curious. They were just evil. For pride is the sort of every kind of sin. And what is pride except a long for a perverse kind of exaltation. Okay? They want to become God. The serpent told them that if you ate this, ate the fruit, you become God. That's what tested them. Okay, the pride for it is a perverse kind of exhortation to abandon the basis on which the mind should be firmly fixed and to become as it were, based on oneself and so remain. What this is saying is pride means we are leaving God and becoming more of ourselves. Okay, there's two ways you can go. You can move towards God, which means to obey God, or you can move towards yourself, okay, which is to sin. This happens when a man is too pleased with himself, and a man is self complacent when he deserts that change is good in which, rather than him, in himself, he ought to have found his satisfaction. Pride. Pride makes us happy. It makes us ambitious, but it will blind us from God. This dissociation is voluntary, for if the will had made and shaken its love of the higher changes. Good was shed on it. Light to seeing Kindle in it. Fire to love. It would not have been diverted from this love to follow its own pleasure. Okay, we abandon God, and the will would not have been so darkened and chilled In consequence, as if the woman believed that the serpent had spoken the truth and the man to put his wife's will above God's commandment. Okay, so here's the problem, the man listened to the woman. Adam was tricked by Eve and to suppose that this was a venial translation when he refused to deliver his life's companion, even though they refused to entail companionship in sin. Okay, so Adam was forced to make a decision. Eve had already eaten a fruit. So either Adam could follow God and disavow Eve, or he could follow her in sin. He followed her in sin, and that's why we are doomed. Okay, so what doomed Adam? What doomed Adam? It was love. He loved Eve, and that's why he decided that yes, I am, I am, yes, Eve is doom, but I love her, so I must do myself as well. That's why Adam ate the fruit, because he could not stand to leave Eve he was binded by his love. So what is this telling us? This is telling us that there's only one true love, and that's the love of God, which is obedience to God. Every other love, a love for each other, is a falsehood. Okay? It is a lie. It can only lead us to sin and disaster. Now, let me ask you a question. Who else said this? Love can only lead you to disaster. It is a disease. You must deny it. You must recognise it for the disease that it is. Who else said this.

Prof. Jiang  34:46  
Virgil, right? Virgil, Virgil and Ennead remember talk about ditto, how ditto fell in love with Aeneas and Aeneas fell in love with ditto, but then the gods. Tell Aeneas, obey us go to go to Italy, so you may found Rome, which is your destiny. And Aeneas, because he's a pious man, abandoned his love and did his duty, so he was honoured by the gods. But ditto became consumed by her love for Indians, and so she committed suicide. She destroyed herself. Love will destroy you. Love will blind you. Love is evil, okay, only obedience is good. Let's

Prof. Jiang  35:42  
continue. Thus, the evil act, the transgression of even the forbidden fruit, was committed only when those who did it were already evil that bad food could only come from bad tree. Further, the badness of the tree came about contrary to nature. It was about a fault in the will which against nature. It certainly could not have happened, okay, but only a nature could have nothing, could have distorted by fault. Consequently, although the will derives its existence as a nature from its creation by God, it's falling away from its true being. It's through its creation out of nothing. Okay, so this, this race, is a very important question for us. If it is true that we are born of sin, it is also true that God created us. Then, is that a contradiction? God is perfect. Why would God create a flawed, sinful person? All right? And the answer is this, because God created us out of nothing. We are creation out of nothing. In other words, we are a failed science experiment. We are in a science experiment gone wrong. He created God, created Adam out of dust, and he created Eve out of Adam, the Adam's rib, basically, right? So he's creating us out of nothing, and this was an experiment. And because we were created out of nothing, we were born of sin. So the only path, the only way forward is for us to embrace God, to become more like God by obeying Him and deny who where we are, because if we were to become more of who we are, if we listen to ourselves, if we loved, if we thought, if we were curious, if we move into our nothingness, but the more we obey God, the more we move towards enlightenment and salvation, Okay, so that's a logic here.

Prof. Jiang  38:00  
Okay, so he concludes that is why humility, okay, humility just means self denial, self negation, right? Complete obedience. Forget who you are. It doesn't matter disobey God, which is the Catholic Church, right? Okay, so he so God really means the Catholic Church. This is why humility is highly praised in the city of God, and especially enjoined on the City of God during the time of its pilgrimage in this world. And it receives particular emphasis in the character of Christ, the King of that city. We are also taught by the sacred scriptures that the thought of exaltation, pride, the contrary of humility, exercise supreme dominion in Christ's adversary, the devil, okay, so he's created the economy in the city of Rome, in the city of Earth, pride triumphs because that's the seed of the devil. In the city of God, humility triumphs, because that's the seat of Jesus. This is surely the great difference that sunders the two cities on which we are speaking. The one is community of the vault devout man, the other company of a religious and each has its own angels attached to it. In one city, love of God has been given first place in the other love of self, pride, ego, will this. All this is in found in the city of Rome, but in the city of God, the only thing that exists is humility and love of God. Any

Prof. Jiang  39:57  
questions so far?

Unknown Speaker  40:13  
Yeah, so Jesus can't even save

Prof. Jiang  40:20  
us. Oh, that's a great question. Okay, so Jesus is dead, and Jesus didn't really do anything, because we're still born of sin, right? So why did God send Jesus? And the answer is to awaken us, to show us that there's been wrong and we must correct ourselves, to lend us to show us the light, but it is we who must walk towards the light. Does that make sense? All right, so we'll conclude with this passage, and this is towards the end of the City of God. Okay, in the heavenly city, then there will be freedom of will. This is really curious, because for the entire book, he's talking he's been talking about how freedom of will is bad. Things were born of sin, right? It will be one and the same. Freedom and all and indivisible in a separate individuals. It will be freed from all evil and filled with all good, enjoying unfailingly the delight of eternal joys, forgetting all offences, forgetting all punishments. Okay, so what's the logic here? The logic is this, when we are on earth, we are by ourselves, we are separate from God, but when we when the city of God. We will have achieved reunion with God. We will return to God. We will be the same as God. God is in us, and we are in God, and therefore we will be incapable of sin. And at that point, we will have complete freedom of will, because our will the same as God's okay? So I know that it's hard. Life sucks on Earth. You're getting exploited by the landlord, you're getting raped by the landlord, you're getting killed by your neighbours. Who knows? Okay, life sucks. But just focus on your internal salvation. Focus on obedience, because when you do so, you will ascend to Jerusalem, and at that point, you will be one with God, and everything that you suffered on earth will be forgotten, and it will just be endless paradise. You are making a sacrifice so that you may be saved. Your sacrifice, you are sacrificing yourself so that you may be saved, okay? And this is a very powerful logic, because this becomes the logic of many powerful movements throughout human history, including that of communism, right? Think about the logic here communism. What is communism? Communism is we work really hard today to build a socialist paradise, once we build social but once we build a socialist paradise, we have complete freedom of will. We will be one and the same. We will be indivisible from each other. We will have complete freedom to do what we please. We can, as Mark says, we can fish in the afternoon and read in the evening and discuss politics with our friends whenever. Okay, we will achieve paradise. So it's the power of the City of God, not only does it provide a framework for the Catholic Church to assert dominion over all of Europe, but it becomes the catalyst for revolutionary movements throughout human history, especially communism, but including other movements as well. Okay, all right, so any questions, no

Prof. Jiang  44:24  
okay, you want to know more about the biography of Augustine. Okay, all right, okay, I'll do so, but this is the very ending of the sea of God. Okay, so let's look at the ending together, and then I'll discuss the biography of Augustine. Yet it will not forget its own liberation, nor be ungrateful to its liberator. Okay, so we have escaped this world of evil and of sin, and we are with God who our great liberator. It will remember even its past evils, as far as intellectual knowledge is concerned, but it will utterly forget them as far as a sense experience. Is concerned, okay? So what this means is, yes, we will remember the pain we suffered on Earth, but the pain will mean nothing. Okay. We will remember what we experienced, but we will not remember the pain. It will be eternal paradise, no more pain, no more suffering, no more sin. For the highly trained physician is acquainted with almost all diseases, as far as they can be known in theory, while he's ignorant of most of them, in respect of personal experience, since he has not suffered from them, okay, we will become godlike in our understanding. We understand why we suffered, and then we will understand suffering means nothing, because we are now united with God. Okay, does that make sense? So that's the logic of the sea of God in Augustine. All right, so now you want to know who this guy is. All right. So there's a lot of controversy over who he is in his biography. And again, remember, if a biography is written by a politician, it's going to be BS, all right. Just so you know, he tells us that he comes from a pretty normal family. His father is a pagan. His mother, Monica, is a devout Christian. And then, through his own hard work, he started to study rhetoric. In university, he became a professor of rhetoric. And then when he was converted, when he saw the light, when God spoke to him, when he had his Damascus moment, he started to to send the Bible rigorously. And then he was spotted by his talent, by the church. And at 42 he was appointed to become the Bishop of Hippo Okay, which is Northern Africa. And he was in that position until his death. One thing that Augustine is known for is the fact that he's prolific. All right, prolific, which means, which meant that he wrote a lot of books. It's possible he wrote 100 1000s of pages, and his two most famous are confessions in the city of God. Okay? So most people, most scholars, take a story for what it is, okay, they believe him. But one thing that you learn in this class is to always be sceptical of power. Okay, so if at age 42 he's appointed the head of the church in this region, what does it tell us? It tells us that he comes to an extremely powerful family, right? Because one thing that you learn in this class is the way the Catholic Church grew. The way that Christianity grew is by merit itself to power. Christianity had a very strict hierarchy, and that enabled it to be co opted by the power elite. Okay, so this tells us the fact that he was appointed Bishop, that he comes from extremely powerful family, his his it's possible his father was a governor, a Roman governor. Was possible a general, okay, but this is not a typical, normal middle class family. It can't be. Does that make sense? That's the first thing. Second thing is he was prolific, which meant he wrote, he wrote a lot. Now, in our class, there was also another individual who was extremely prolific, who and who was that person? Meaning, that he wrote a lot like, way too much. This person is Aristotle, right? The thing that we said about Aristotle is he was a censor, a propagandist for the Macedonian Empire. He was trying to justify the supremacy of Greek civilization, and so when he wrote, he probably didn't write anything by himself, but he had, like a team of students around him who wrote everything for him. So you can surmise the same old Augustine as bishop. He had hundreds of scribes, hundreds of priests who basically took his theories and turned them into books, and that's how he was able to be so prolific. So think of think of him as a professor, basically a university professor, a science professor, who's in charge of a lab. He doesn't actually do His own work. He has assistance for that, but he's the one directing the research and the writing, okay, you can also see him as a propagandist. Does that make sense, right? But he's clearly a genius. Okay, there's no denying he is a genius. Okay, any more questions? No.

Prof. Jiang  50:06  
Okay, so even though this is all genius, it's only because they're an empire and they can gaslight their people. Okay, so, so the logic is basically like, this logic is, I push you down, and you turn around and says, Hey, why did you push me down? I say to you, I didn't push you down. You slipped. There's a difference. All right, I can do that because I'm powerful and you're not. So this is really the logic of empire, all right? Augustine is really using the logic of empire. He's trying to force people to be obedient, right? Because obedience leads to salvation. Hey, you can disobey me. You can fool around, but this means you'll burn in hell for eternity. Do you really want to take that chance? Most people don't. Okay, so most people during most about this time choose to become passive in order to avoid sin, and this will mark the beginning of the Dark Ages in Europe. Okay, but there are many people who choose to rebel. There are many who believe that exploration, curiosity, intuition, imagination is fundamental to being human. If you refuse to let me be human, then I will go somewhere else. So where do they go? Well, they go east. Okay, they go east there are two places. The first is the sassinian Persian empire. But another place they'll go that's very interesting is Arabia. Why do they go into Arabia? Because Arabia is basically a lawless desert. There's no real authority in the desert, and there are lots of Jewish people and Christians who escaped Arabia in order to practice their faith. One thing that you learned in class, and that you will learn in this class, or that you have learned in this class, is that people take their faith very seriously. I'd rather die than not practice my faith. So all these people are going to the desert in order to practice their faith. Why is this important? Because from Arabia will come a new religion called Islam, all right. So these are the people who will give birth to a revolutionary new religion called Islam that will challenge the authority of the Catholic Church and of Augustine, okay, and this is what we will discuss next class. So.

