Prof. Jiang  0:01  
Okay, so let's begin class, and today we are discussing whether or not Trump will win in November, and I'm making the prediction that he will win in November and that he will pick Nikki Haley as his vice president. Okay, so let me make you the argument today. Okay, so let's first discuss why Biden won in 2020 and why it's possible that he may lose this year. Okay, so in 2020 it was a very special year in American politics, because it was a larger it was the largest turnout in American history since about 1900 Okay, so 74 million people voted for Trump, Biden, for Biden, 81 million people voted for him, and two out of every three American adults came out to vote. Okay, so it was the largest turnout in American history. It doesn't it sounds like a very lopsided victory for Biden 81 million versus 4 million. But because America hasn't been called an electoral college system, which is not director of democracy. Actually, the margin of victory was only 65,000 votes, meaning that if 65,000 people in key battleground states flip their votes, then Trump would have won. Okay, so the margin of victory was very, very close, as is usually the case in highly contested American elections. So let's understand the coalition that brought Biden into the White House. Okay, so the first major component of this coalition are black people. 91% of all blacks voted for Biden, only 8% voted for Trump. That's a huge majority for Biden. So why did so many black people vote for Biden in 2020 Well, first of all, it's because Biden was Obama's vice president for eight years, and so a lot of older black people had a certain loyalty to him. Okay? They felt that we owe this man because he served loyal, loyally, to our man, Barack Obama, for years, and so now we must bring him into the White House. But this year, the debt is paid off, right? So they won't feel so loyal to Biden. Okay? Also, in 2020 there's something called a George Floyd protest. So what happened was that, in May 2020 a black man in Minneapolis, George Floyd, he was strangled to death by a white police officer. It was captured on video, and it caused a natural uproar. In fact, there were riots and protests throughout the country, and Trump came out and did not acknowledge the pain that black people felt because of this death and so black people felt antipathy towards Trump. Okay, so these are the two major reasons why black people voted for Biden in 2020 but this year, Trump's not in office, right? Biden's in office. So Black people are asking the question, what has Biden done for us these past four years? And unfortunately, the answer is not that much. And in fact, you can make the argument that Biden has really hurt instead of living of black people. Why? Because inflation has gone up, okay, when inflation goes up, um, it usually hurts poor people the most. Okay, the central living goes way down. Also, illegal immigration has gone up, okay, so in 2010, 2020, when Trump left office, there are about 10 million illegal immigrants in America. Now there are 20 million illegal immigrants in America, and it seems like Biden is doing nothing to stop this trend. And of course, when illegal immigrants come into the country, they usually take the jobs of poor people. Okay, they bring wages down. And that again, hurts black people. And then third is Ukraine. So while the standard of living for black people and other poor people in America are going down, America is sending 10s of billions of dollars to Ukraine to fight a war that has nothing to do with a. America, so many Americans see this as black as just bad leadership. Okay, so that's black people, and Recent polls show that actually Biden's lead with black people is not as much as it was in 2020, okay, so this, this lead, is going down young people, okay? What young people tend to vote Democratic in all elections, and they were extremely galvanised to vote in 2020 they say, saw Trump as this very hateful racist that they must remove from office, right? And they were driven to believe this because of the George Floyd protests. Unfortunately, this year, young people may not feel compelled to vote for Biden. In fact, a lot of young people are choosing to set up this election. Why you guys know Gaza? Okay, so as you know right now, throughout America, on college campuses, young people are protesting the war in Gaza. So these young people are not going to vote for Trump, but they probably will not vote for Biden as a protest against American policy via the Israel now let's look at the college educated. Okay, so 70% of people with college degrees voted for Biden. These are what we call the coastal elite, right? The Coastal professional, managerial elite, and they usually overwhelmingly vote democratic, and this year, they will still see the same, but they will be less enthusiastic because of what they perceive to be poor global leadership. Okay, Biden under Biden's watch, Ukraine blew up, but so did Gaza, and many are starting to feel that it's because Biden comes across as too old, too weak and too feeble to stand against Putin. Okay, so college educated people will still overwhelmingly vote Democratic, that is the core Democratic base, but they'll be less enthusiastic about Biden, and they'll vote primarily against Trump, okay. Woman, okay, so 54% of women voted for Biden. 44% voted for Trump. Okay, and again, because Trump is seen as this hateful figure, we expect that women will still consistently vote Democratic this year, okay? And also because of abortion issues, right? So women are very passionate about abortion, and they will come out and vote for Biden to ensure that abortion rights are protected. Last look at let's look at Suburban voters. Okay, so it's the suburbs. The suburbs are between the cities, the urban areas, and the rural areas. Okay? Cities, urban areas overwhelmingly support the Democratic Party. Rural Areas overwhelming, overwhelmingly support the Republican Party. So the suburbs are where the battleground is. And so if you look at 19, sorry, 2016 when Trump defeated Hillary Clinton, only 45% of the suburbs voted for Clinton, which allowed Trump to defeat her in the election. Okay. Now what's interesting is that in 2020 this flip and 54% of suburban voters voted for Biden, that's a flip of 2 million voters. Okay, so in elections, usually it's a suburban vote that determines the election, because the swing voters, okay? So for Trump to win this year, he needs to win the suburban vote. He won that in 2016 he lost that in 2020 Okay, so let's examine very quickly why the suburbs went Biden in 2020 and there are three major reasons. The first is the media narrative. So what was happening throughout

Prof. Jiang  9:39  
Trump's presidency is basically the entire mainstream media got together and criticised Trump. Okay, so the first major criticism of Trump, if you if you remember, is he was a Russian asset, okay, he was a paid Putin puppet. And, of course, the. Was just a complete lie, what we call russiagate. But then they start to say that Trump was a divisive figure, and this idea caught the imagination of the suburbs, because if you live in the suburbs, you tend to be middle class, you tend to be pretty wealthy and well educated, so you like the status quo. You want a leader who's conservative and who's a unifier. And throughout the Trump presidency, we saw the polarisation of politics. The left and the right hate each other, and they fought all the time. And what really showed this was the George Floyd protest, right? So you had protesters rioting in the streets, and Trump was like, let's sit in the military to crush the protesters. And so people in the suburbs were very worried about this. They thought that a leader, the president should be a uniter, right? And Biden came across as extremely steady, as very establishment, as someone who could unite both the Republican Party and the Democratic Party. Okay, that was his perception in 2020 so that's the first major reason why the suburbs went Biden second was the pandemic. So as you know, covid hit the United States, and the suburbs were extremely freaked out about this, because they tend they tend to have children who go to school, they tend to be older, and they thought that Trump's handling of the pandemic was very incompetent. Okay, he what he he was an outsider, a political outsider, but that meant he could not get things done in Washington. Okay? So that's the second problem with Trump, and the third reason why the sub the suburbs went Biden is Kamala Harris. Okay, and this is key. Biden picked Kamala Harris to be his Vice President, to be his running mate. And Kamala Harris, let me tell you a little about Kamala Harris. Her father is Jamaican, her mother is Indian, and she has she has a younger sister, but when she was she was young, her dad left the family, so her mom raised the two girls by herself. And a Kamala Harris is extremely accomplished person. She went to Stanford, and then she became Attorney General of California, then became a US senator. Okay? And there are three reasons why the suburbs love Kamala Harris. First of all, I like us, okay, meaning like she comes across as someone who speaks and thinks like people in the suburbs, okay? Well educated, articulate, smart conservative, okay. Second is she seemed as very establishment, meaning that she's not liberal. In fact, when she was attorney general of California, she was extremely tough on crime. She was trying to send as many people to jail as possible, and sometimes, quite honestly, some of these people were innocent, okay? And she still, and she still sent them to jail. Okay, that she was very controversial as attorney general. But guess what, guys, people in the suburbs like tough on crime. Okay? They want safety. They want security. These have kids, okay? And the third reason why they like coming out here is, is because of the redemption story. So in 2019 there is a Democratic primary, okay? This is when the Democrats try to get a nomination for the general election, okay? And there was a lot of people who who are vying for the nomination, including Joe Biden and Kamala Harris. In June 2019, there, there was the first democratic debate, okay? And at this point, Kamala Harris and Joe Biden were considered very heavy favourites to win a nomination, and in that first debate, Kamala Harris and Joe Biden got into a very nasty argument on television. Okay, so what happened is that Kamala Harris turned to Joe Biden and Joe Biden. Kind of shell shocked. Okay, he's, he's kind of old, and he and like commander Harris is directing her words at him, and he doesn't really want to see her. Okay, he does. He doesn't really want to confront her. And what command Harris says to Joe Biden is, Joe, you've been, you've been in Washington, DC, for 50 years, and some of your policies I don't support. For example, you do not support the integration of black and white students together. Well, you know what, Joe, I'm a black student. I was a black little girl. Grew up in the 70s in California, and I got my opportunity to succeed in America because of integration, because I could go to white school, and you opposed my opportunity to succeed. Okay, so basically, she was calling Biden a racist, and at that point, everyone thought that, okay, what Biden gets a nomination. There's no way he's going to pick her to be the VP, okay, and then he picks her to be the VP. And so what do people think about Biden? What do people think of Biden? What impression do people get because of this? Anyone you Yes, okay, exactly, okay. Doesn't hold grudges. What else? What else? What else? Doesn't hold grudges. He's a very forgiving man. What else? Good? Yes, he listens, right? He's a listener. He's a team player, okay? And he has empathy, okay? He understands that voters want Kamala Harris, okay? And guess what, guys, these three things, doesn't hold grudges, listens, team player, and empathy. This is anti Trump, right? This is the anti Trump. And because of this narrative, woman, especially woman in the suburbs, went for Biden. Okay, previously, they had gone for Trump. Now they went for Biden, because, as it turns out, women want compassionate, empathetic leadership that is decisive and bold but is also tolerant, okay, and that this is also why, even though Hillary Clinton, like ran in 2016 and she was a woman the suburbs didn't vote for her because she was she didn't come across as someone who was compassionate and forgiving and tolerant. Okay, does that make sense? And this is why Biden was able to win in 2020 so this year, what can trump do to win the suburbs? What can he do?

Prof. Jiang  18:15  
Yeah, he can copy this exact same thing. Okay, and it turns out he can do this, okay? Why? Because on the Republican side, there's someone called Nikki Nikki Kelly. Oh, sorry, Nikki Haley. And Nikki Haley is very similar to Kamala Harris, okay, Nikki Haley, her parents are Indian immigrants. Okay, so she's Indian. She's of South Asian descent, and her family's that was not very wealthy, but she worked hard and she became, she became South Carolina governor for two for two terms, and then she joined the Trump administration as UN ambassador in 2016 Okay, now what's interesting about Nikki Haley is that Nikki Haley ran against Trump in the Republican primary, okay? And even though she lost to Trump, there was a group of people who loved her, guess, who just loved her, who voted for her in droves. Guess? Guess what demographic group, anyone?

Prof. Jiang  19:38  
Suburban woman. Okay, you understand college educated suburban woman. Okay, so in other words, if Trump brings her on to the ticket, then it's very likely he can swing the suburbs back to him and win the election. But there's a problem. The problem is. Is that Nikki Haley and Trump got into a very nasty fight during the primary. Okay, so Nikki Haley said, Listen, I served under Trump, and I think he's, he's a divisive figure, and right now in our country, we need a unifier. That's why I'm running for president, because I want to unite this country, whereas Trump will can only divide this country, okay? And then Trump, being Trump, responds and says, Nikki Haley is a bird brain. She's stupid. Okay? So you think you see this, you think like there's no way Trump will pick her, because Nikki Haley's not loyal to Trump, right? And Trump likes loyalty also. Hey guys, Trump holds grudges, right? And he doesn't listen, and he's not a team player, and he lacks empathy, so there's no way he would pick Nikki Haley. And in fact, this past week, there's, there's been news report that Nikki Haley is in consideration to be Trump's vice president. And Trump came out and said, I am not considering Nikki Haley. Okay, but let me ask you this question, if in August, during the Republican Republican convention, he does pick Nikki Haley. How do people feel about him? How would the media report this? Nikki Haley is an enemy of Trump. Trump called her a bird brain. Trump said, I will never pick Nikki Haley. And then in August, three months from now, he says, You know what, I was wrong. I think Nikki Haley is the best person to be my VP. That's why she'll be my running mate in November. How would people feel about him? What would the suburbs think about Trump? How would you feel if you saw this?

Prof. Jiang  22:15  
He's a changed man, right? Trump has grown. Remember, like, the narrative about Trump is he is a five year old child. And remember, like people were like, don't insult five year old children like that, okay, five year old children are much more mature than Trump. So the argument about Trump is he's divisive, but much more than that, he's immature. He's incapable of growth, okay, but hey, if in August he picks Nikki Haley to be his VP, then the media will be like he is, a changed man. He's learned his lessons. He's willing to let go of grudges. He's willing to listen. He now has empathy, therefore he should be president. Okay, you understand. Then what happens is the suburbs switch over to Trump, and then he wins. So if he picks Nikki Haley in August, he will win, okay, I'm not completely sure that he will pick Nikki Haley. I think that this is his best strategic move, okay, but Trump is not really predictable, all right, and who he picks as vice president will give us a good clue as to how he will govern when he when he becomes president, okay, does that make sense? All right. Now the question then is, okay, who is Nikki Haley and what will she do as vice president? Okay. Now, what's important to understand about Nikki Haley is that when she left office, when she left Washington DC, pulled office in 2018 she had nothing in her bank account. Okay, she had no money in her bank account. Now she has $10 million in her bank account, and she lives in a $5 million mansion. So where did she get this money? Okay, she got her she got this money mainly for an organisation called united against a nuclear Iran, and this organization's primary purpose is to create conflict between United States and Iran. Okay? They they go against any companies or individuals who support Iran. United States who does business with Iran. Okay. They are a very anti Iranian organisation. One of their main donors, his name. Is Sheldon Alderson. And Sheldon Ellison is an extremely pro Israel business person. Okay? He owns a lot of casinos. Okay, so MGM stands. He's a billionaire. And what's interesting about sandal sandal Edelson, he's dead, okay, but he was the main patron of a man named Benjamin Netanyahu, okay. He is the main political patron and financial donor to Benjamin Netanyahu. So Sheldon Ellison supports both Netanyahu and supports this organisation called united against a nuclear Iran and united against a nuclear red hired Nikki Haley and paid a lot of money. Okay, that's the first thing. Second thing is that in 2019 she got a job for Boeing. Boeing is a weapons manufacturer. They make aeroplanes, but they mainly make bombs and missiles. Okay, so they love war. She sat on the board of Boeing, an extremely prestigious job, and she was paid 300,000 US dollars just to sit on the board and do nothing. Okay? She has also given speeches at an organisation called Christians United for Israel. And you may remember that this is a 7 million strong organisation that supports war in the Middle East. They are evangelical Christians. They are dispensation premillennialists who believe that war between Israel and Iran will bring Jesus back to Earth and establish the Kingdom of Heaven. And therefore they want as much conflict in the Middle East as possible. Okay, so all this is telling us is that if Nikki Haley becomes vice president, her main responsibility will be to agitate for war against Iran. Okay, she'll be the one in the White House pushing for war in Iran, escalating tensions in Iran. Okay? So. Nikki Haley, okay. What's also interesting is, okay, in January 2019, he so basically, the primary is over. Trump has won everything, okay? But in January, 2019, even after Trump won, Haley was able to raise more money than Trump. So Haley got about $12 million from donors. Trump gets guideline million dollars, okay? And the only explanation for this is these donors knew that Haley would not become president. She could not be Trump, but they were trying to position her to be his vice president by making her stay in the race and giving her as much publicity as possible. In fact, even though she dropped out of the race, she's still getting about 25% to 33% of all Republican votes. Okay, so she comes across as an extremely popular establishment figure. So does this make sense? Okay? So the conclusion is that, given the way the situation in United States, it seems very likely Trump will win in 2024 okay, because the Biden coalition will not hold together because of inflation, illegal immigration, what's happening in Gaza? What's happening Ukraine? Trump looks very strong right now, and the poll suggests that either the race is tied between the two or Trump has slight advantage. Okay, Trump can basically seal the victory if he picks Nikki Haley to be his vice president, because Nikki Haley will turn the suburbs to him very strongly, and it's a suburbs that basically decide US elections. And as Vice President, what she will be doing is agitating for war against Iran, which means that she's on the payroll of anti Iranian forces in the United States. Okay, so any questions, anything you're. Not care about right now his vice president,

Prof. Jiang  30:14  
what does she hold the grudge against Trump? Okay, so Jack asked a great question, okay? He's like, What if Haley holds a grudge and says no, right? And quite honestly, she has been asked in the past, are you willing to serve as Trump's vice president? And she's like, No, because he's a divider. He's divisive, and we need to move on from Trump. Okay, all right. Do you guys remember in class when we studied Trump, very close to his personality, we looked at his days in the WWE okay? And there was a scene where Vince McMahon, the owner of WWE, a billionaire, challenges Trump to a fight, right? Well, guess what, guys, politics is the same thing. It's all theatre, okay? Politics is theatre. What Nikki Haley and Donald Trump are doing is pretending to be bitter enemies so that, so that their reconciliation will be so dramatic, you understand. So Nikki Haley served under Trump in the first administration. Okay, so from 2016 to 2018 she was UN ambassador for Trump, and everyone says that the two got along really well. In fact, Trump was considering having her be his VP running mate in 2020 he was thinking of dropping Mike Pence and putting her on the ticket. Okay, so the two of them together actually have a great rapport. The two respect each other. They get along very well. Okay, so that's the first thing. Second thing is that the thing to know about very successful politicians is they are first and foremost opportunists. They have no ideas, they have no principles. All they care about is political power, right? So why would Nikki Haley agree to be vice president? Why? Because it's one step away from the presidency. Do you understand if anything happens to Trump, she's president, and in four years time, she can run as the Republican nominee for the presidency, okay? Does that make sense? Okay? So that's the thing you need to know about politicians, okay, all they care about is political power. They will do anything to achieve local power. They will, they will sell their own mother, okay, to achieve local power. But the same thing for rich people, okay, rich people love money. They will do anything to get money. Okay, sell their own mother. Fine, okay, there's that also celebrities, famous people, right? All they care about is fame. Okay, so did you understand Jack? All right, any more questions, is

Prof. Jiang  33:29  
this clear to you guys? Is there anything you're not clear about? I'll explain further. I

Prof. Jiang  33:50  
Okay, so Jack asked a great question. Okay, well, listen like I can figure this out just by reading the news right? Biden has an amazing team of extremely well paid professional experience strategists working with him. They know this. They can see what's going on. So what can Biden do to counter Trump's strategy or the polls? Okay, and the answer is this, um, if you look at 2020, everyone thought that Biden could not get the nomination, okay, why? Because he likes charisma. Nobody likes him, okay, so when Biden goes to speak, there's no one there to listen to him, he's boring and he has no ideas, and he's old. I mean, Biden ran for president two times before, and he lost both times. And the reason why is he's not charismatic and he has no ideas, okay? But Biden's like, Nope, I'm gonna stay in a race because I believe I can win. Him, and you ask him, Biden, what is your strategy? What is your reasoning? Going forward? I don't know. I'm gonna win. Okay, so if we were discussing this in 2020, in May and June, I would be like, Biden has no chance. Okay, because Trump's gonna go out there and give speeches to 100,000 people, and they're gonna love him, and they're gonna go and vote for him. Okay? Biden gives a speech. Everyone falls asleep, and under the debate stage, Trump will destroy Biden. Okay, so I was sure that in May, April, 2020, Biden had no chance. But then what happened? Hey, the George Floyd protest happened so all these young people who didn't really like Biden, they were now galvanised to go vote for him, all these black people, all these suburban voters, they wanted Biden to win because they thought Trump was divisive. Okay? And then what happened? The pandemic happened. So Trump couldn't go out to debate. Trump can go out to campaign anymore. You understand? Biden could just sit in his basement and do nothing. Right? Do you understand. So unfortunately, Biden learned the wrong lessons from 2020 the lesson that he learned in 2020 is that, hey, if I just sit in my basement all day and make no mistakes, my surrogates, the Democratic Party, will Hillary Clinton, Bill Clinton, Barack Obama, they'll go out and give speeches for me, they'll fire up the base, and I'll win because I'm not Trump. Okay, that is the entire binding strategy. I'm not Trump.

Prof. Jiang  36:57  
The problem with this idea is, okay. In 2020 the American people had four years of Trump and they know he sucks. Okay, the problem now is the American people have seen four years of Biden and Biden sucks as well, okay? And so it's a question like, who sucks more? Biden or Trump. Okay? So in other words, people are not going to come out to vote because they think both suck, and which means that the party with a coalition with a base that feels more strongly about the issues is going to come out to vote. Okay? And what we know is that the Republican coalition of world voters, conservatives, Christians, white voters, they feel much more passionately about Trump than the Democratic coalition feels about Biden. Okay, does that make sense? So unfortunately, the answer is that Biden has no strategy going forward because he didn't have a strategy going forward in 2020 and he won in 2020 so why can't the saving happen in saving happened this year, right? And unfortunately, because Biden's so old, he's 81 he doesn't have the energy to change the way he is. You understand it's much easier for him to sit around and pray that I'm not Trump will deliver another election than it is for him to go out and change who he is, he can't change who he is, okay? Does that make sense? Okay? But that's a great question. All right. Any more questions before?

Prof. Jiang  39:02  
Okay? So again, I am not sure who will win this year. Okay, I think it's Trump. I'm not sure that Nikki Haley will be his Vice President. I'm just making a guess. So the little question then is, why are we doing this? And the answer is this, we try to think we have to build an analytical model right of how the world works, and the only way we know if this model works or not is by making predictions and testing it against reality. Okay, so you know what? It's possible that in August, Trump will pick someone else, okay, possibly someone named JD Vance. Okay. The only thing you need to, you need to know about JD Vance is he's very loyal or Trump, okay, it's possible he picks, he picks JD Vance, okay, I think he'll pick Nikki Haley. I often, actually, I often think that there. There's a very good chance he picks JD Vance as well. Okay, but I'll make the bet that he picks Nikki Haley. Okay, so it's possible in August he does not pick a Nikki Nikki Haley picks jaDy vans or someone else instead. Okay. It's also possible that in November, Trump loses, okay, but that's fine, because, because if, I'm wrong, then what I do is I go back to this analysis, and I make changes to analysis this analysis, so that it's much more reflective and accurate. Okay? Does that make sense? Okay? And that's how we try to think critically about the world, by building ethical models that we can then test against reality and then and then, based on what happens in reality, we can go and refine our analytical model. Right? Any questions, okay, so next week, we discuss the war in Iran, okay? Because if you look at this again, if Nikki Haley becomes the Vice President, it is very likely she will agitate for war against Iran and Trump will go along, okay? And if that's the case, then we need to understand how America will fight the war and how Iran will respond, and that's what we'll we will do next week. Okay, you.

