Prof. Jiang  0:00  
So this week, Vladimir Putin, in a speech, said to his Russian people that all of Russia must now prepare for total war, even if you are not fighting on the front lines in Ukraine, pretend you are and because of this speech, there are many analysts who believe that Putin is preparing Russia for total war, and total war means that every aspect of your of your society is geared towards winning a war. And so we had a lot we last had total war in World War Two, okay, but not after that. So why is put in doing this? Now there are some people who believe that it's because Russia is not doing so well in Ukraine. They lack manpower, and so they need to mobilise a society to fully win the war in Ukraine. Okay, another explanation is that Putin knows that NATO is preparing to send reinforcements to Ukraine. Remember that because of last summer's offensive, Ukraine is desperately short of manpower. Okay, the average age of their soldiers right now is over 40. They have men in their 60s who are fighting in the front lines. Emery Macron of France have has publicly stated that he is considering sending French troops to Ukraine. The British themselves are thinking of conscription, drafting all young men into the army. The Americans, American politicians have said that they're considering a new law that would give citizenship to illegal immigrants who join the army. Okay, so it seems like NATO is only going to escalate the war in Ukraine, and So Russia is preparing for that. One more explanation, one more possibility, is that Putin wants to expand the war. Okay, so he knows he's winning in Ukraine, and he's thinking about attacking Moldova and possibly the Baltic states. These are all possibilities today. This morning, what I want to do is argue another possibility, which is that Putin is mobilising his society because he sees war as a tool, as a mechanism, to radically reshape the people in Russia. So think of a metaphor. You're fat and you're like, Okay, how do I get fit. How do I get trimmed? Right? You go to the gym and you work out and for Putin, that's what war is. War is a workout for society. When you enter war, you become a much more disciplined, unified and prosperous society. Okay, so that's what I want to argue. Want to argue today. Okay, so why does Putin think like this? Well, let's look at the current state of Russia. Okay, Russia, in many aspects, is a broken society corruption. Russia is the most corrupt society in all of Europe, the rich people steal, and then they run off to Europe or the United States or Dubai. Okay, so corruption is a huge problem in Russia, and because of corruption, the GDP of Russia is very low. So South Korea, which has about a third of the population of Russia, has a higher GDP, okay, the state of Texas, this one state in United States, has a higher GDP than Russia. So Russia, in many respects, is a very poor country. Okay. Second problem is alcoholism. One out of every six Russian males, about 16, 17% of the population, they're alcoholics. Okay, it's a disease. They have the disease of alcoholism. One of every three deaths in Russia is because of drinking too much and because of alcoholism, the the rate of young men dying is just increasing and increasing, okay? The third problem is fertility. You. Yeah. So right now the fertility rate in Russia is 1.5 that is below the replacement level, right? Remember that the replacement level for society is 2.1 Russia is 1.5 The problem is you have a lot of men dying because of alcoholism, okay, so since the year 2000 the population in Russia has been declining steadily, and all this means is that if current trends continue, then Russia will cease to exist as a society. Okay, the nation will die. So, why is this happening? Well, okay, the worst explanation is that this is happening because Russia is not democratic right. If you had full democracy and you unleash the human potential of your people, then Russia will prosper. But Putin Vladimir, Putin has a different explanation. Okay, his explanation is that this is happening to Russia, okay, corruption, alcoholism and low fertility, because Russians have been lied to, deceived and manipulated by Western civilization. Western civilization preaches the gospel of liberal democracy, of freedom, of human rights, of consumerism. And these are all lies. They're hypocrisies that have fooled the Russian people and have corrupted the Russian soul and destroyed Russian civilization, and because Russians are abandoning their soul, their civilization, their nation, this is why this is happening. Does that make sense? That is Putin's argument. So what does Putin believe this? Well, in the late 80s, the Soviet Union had basically lost the Cold War. They lost the Cold War because their elite basically gave up. They no longer believed in communism. They didn't believe in self sacrifice for the nation. They thought that Western values, the western lifestyle, was much better. Okay, so they gave up, um, in the late 80s, there was an American historian. He actually works for the American State Department, and his name is Francis Fukuyama, and he wrote an extremely influential essay called The End of History. End of History, okay with a quotation mark. And he argued that the Soviet Union fell and America became trumpant, because liberal democracy is the best idea to have ever been invented. And to make his argument, he uses the philosopher Frederick Hegel. Okay. Now, Frederick Hegel had something called the Theory of the dialectic, dialectic. And what Hegel argued is that history is determined by a war of ideas. The progress of history is determined by the movement of ideas. And how ideas work, is that they have a pattern called the dialectic. Okay, so there's a thesis, a new idea comes into being, but then we recognise that this idea has problems. It's too extreme, it's too problematic. So we create an antithesis, okay, but this antithesis itself is also too extreme, and this creates also problems. So then what happens is the theses and the antithesis come together and create a more moderate, more efficient idea, okay, called the synthesis. And this is how history moves or progresses. And so Fukuyama takes this idea and says, Okay, well, this explains what's happening today, where, at first you have a thesis called capitalism, okay, capitalism, and this create the Industrial Revolution, right? And because capitalism was too extreme, we move towards communism. Okay? Communism was created to counteract the extremes of capitalism,

Prof. Jiang  9:55  
but communism itself is too extreme, so then we move towards the middle. Which is the right idea, which is called liberal democracy. Okay, so what is liberal democracy? Well, at the core of liberal democracy is the idea of consumerism. And the idea of consumerism is that we exist to buy things, and as long as we buy things, there'll be world peace. Why? Because consumers have a need to buy, and therefore nations have a need to produce and nations produce the best when they're trading together, as opposed to warring against each other. Okay, so this is the argument that Francis Fukuyama makes in the end of history. I want to explain this argument further. Okay, what's what's he really saying? Okay, so throughout human history, all societies have struggled with one problem, which is, how do we optimise the workforce? How do we get each and every person to work as hard as possible for our society? And if everyone did that, then our society would be strong, united and prosperous, right? Okay, so that's a fundamental problem of politics. How do you optimise workforce participation? Okay? And traditionally, or historically, there have been three answers. The first is war, the second is religion, and the third is civilization.

Prof. Jiang  11:53  
Now as you can understand, these three things work because they give structure. Meaning and purpose to our lives. Okay, and we have structure, meaning and purpose, we are much more motivated to work hard. But as you can also see, there are actually lots of problems with all three, right? War is you kill people. That's bad. Religion is superstitious, okay? But civilization itself is also problematic, because the logical extreme of civilization is racism, okay, which is to say that we Russians are better than everyone else. We Chinese are better than everyone else, therefore we can do it whatever we want, okay? And this naturally leads to imperialism. Right? We have a duty to go conquer other people, to civilise them, right? Something called the White Man's Burden, and this leads to fascism, okay, okay, war and Congress are the ultimate good. So historically, war, religion and civilization have given people structure, meaning and purpose, but they create a lot of problems. They create suffering and war and pain. Okay, so. But over time, what has happened is that all of them, over time, have become much more abstract, and the reason why they've become more abstract is in order to increase the population, in order to create mass society. So let me give you an example of this. The earliest religions in humanity have been polytheistic, and the gods themselves were very much like humans to think of the Greeks, okay, Zeus, Athena, Hera, okay. It was a polytheistic society, and they were very much like humans. But over time, this polytheism became monotheistic. They became abstract, okay, the idea of God was so much removed from us, and the benefit of that is that you can, you can have more people believing in one God, and it motivate you to work harder. Okay, because it's such an abstract concept. And because of abstraction, we develop new ideas. For example, money, okay? So rather than have war, religion and civilization as the structure and centre our society, why not make money? The structure of your society, okay? And this we call capitalism. And capitalism, of course, led to the Industrial Revolution. Industrialism, okay? Capitalism meant that societies were becoming wealthier and wealthier, more industrial and more industrialised, okay, does that make sense? All right, but there's a problem with capitalism, right? What's a problem with making capital or money at the very heart of your society? You

Prof. Jiang  15:47  
Exactly, okay. So the first major problem of capitalism is it's all consuming. So so, as Jack says, All capitalism cares about is the expansion and growth of capital, regardless of its effect on society, okay, profit, for the sake of growing profit, it's an all consuming idea which can ultimately lead to destruction of the planet. Okay, that's the first problem. What's another problem with capitalism, or the idea of having money as the heart and centre of your society?

Unknown Speaker  16:26  
Anyone?

Prof. Jiang  16:32  
Okay, so what's what this means is that money likes to consolidate itself, okay? Consolidating, okay, meaning that, if so, the example is, let's just say that each of us had a million dollars, right? What's the fastest way for us to grow our money? If we put together right, and then we go invest it? Okay? So in other words, if you just like capitalism do whatever it wants to infinity. What happens is that you you exactly have one person with all the money. Okay. Does that make sense? Because that's the fastest way to grow money by consolidating it. Okay, so that's problematic. What else is wrong with capitalism or money? Okay, so another problem is the idea of alienating or dehumanising.

Prof. Jiang  17:33  
What does this mean? Capital alienates and dehumanises. What does that mean?

Prof. Jiang  17:48  
Exactly Okay, you are you as a person? Cease to be human. Right to be a human is to be a complex, multifaceted individual who likes to create and love. But in capitalism, you're only your production value. You're only the amount of money in your bank account. Okay, does that make sense? All right, so for all these reasons, capitalism is really bad, there are actually more reasons, okay, so Karl Marx and his Communist Manifesto points out all these problems of capitalism, and he proposes a solution which is okay, rather than make money at the heart and centre of your industrial society, Make the worker the heart and centre of your society. Okay? So he makes this argument, but what's very revolutionary or President about his argument is this is a natural cycle, okay, this is part of the Hegel cycle, where capitalism comes along and Communism will be the natural evolution of capitalism. Okay? Why? Okay, okay, so let's do the thought experiment. Okay, let's do this thought experiment where your parents have died and now you're working in a factory in order to survive. How do you feel about this, your parents have died. There's no one to support you. So at age 1617, 18, you have to go off to a factory to make money for yourself. So how do you feel about this? Are you happy about this? How? How do you feel, depressing and and lonely and bitter? Yeah, exactly. You're bitter and you're depressed. Okay, you're alienated. Yes, so then what do you do? Then what do you do?

Prof. Jiang  20:13  
What can you do? Now, you're bitter, you're angry, you're depressed, you're lonely. So what do you

Prof. Jiang  20:27  
okay? You start to think about why this is the case, right? You start to have a political consciousness, okay, what Marx calls political consciousness. From this alienation of the worker, workers will start to develop a political consciousness, right? They're like, why is this happening? Why is the government abandoned me? Why has society abandoned me? What can I do about this? Okay, so then what happens? That's exactly right. You want change, right? And how, and how do you enact change? You trying to spread, yes, okay, you spread your ideas and you organise, right? And when you organise, what do you realise?

Prof. Jiang  21:17  
Yeah, you what you recognise when you when you start to organise is the capitalists need you to do the work, right? The capitalists own the capital and the factories, but you're the one who's actually doing the real work. So without you, the factories can't run. So it's only say United you can enact whatever political demands you want, okay? Does that make sense? Okay? So for Marx, this is just a natural evolution of capitalism. Capitalism leads to the alienation of the working class, which will lead to their political consciousness, which will lead to their solidarity, which will lead to a political revolution. And so you can make the worker as the heart and centre of your society. Okay? Does it make sense? Guys? All right. Now, what's amazing about Marx is that today we say he's wrong, right? Communism happened in the Soviet Union. It happened in China, but it happened in Europe and in United States, where Marx said it would happen first, because Germany was more industrialised than Russia or China. Okay. Does that make sense? That's what we say. But if you think about it deeply, okay? Do Okay, Marx is right after World War Two. Every society, every industrial society, to some extent, adopted the ideas of communism. It doesn't make sense. Okay? We call this socialism and not communism, but basically it adhere to the thinking of Marx, which is to make the worker the heart and centre of your society. And why do they do that after World War Two? Exactly, okay, because workers create value. Money doesn't create any value. Money just creates more money. Okay, speculative, but the workers create value. They're productive, and therefore you have to treat your workers properly. So in America and in Europe, workers became the heart and centre of your society, and the workers, through unions, could demand political reforms, and so our society was geared towards making the lives of the middle class the working class, better, okay? That's why you had excellent healthcare, great great public schools, cheap universities, okay? So the 50s and 60s and 70s was basically the peak of society for the working class, but in the 80s, we start to change this. Why? Why would want to change the system. It's a great system, right? Marx is right. Having the worker as the heart and centre of your society, as the central organising unit of society, makes a lot more sense than having money as the heart and centre, okay, but starting the 80s, we start to go back to money. Why

Prof. Jiang  24:58  
who wants more? So? Yes, exactly. So what happened in the 80s is something called the revolt of the elite. Okay? In other words, the problem with having a society based on the worker is it becomes too egalitarian, too equal, right? But if you are like the elite, you don't want equality, you want difference. You want to have power and money in your hands. Does it make sense? So the revolted elite happened in the 80s, and this what we call in the United States, the Reagan Revolution. Okay? The Reagan Revolution, the beginning of neoliberalism, free market capitalism. And in Britain, it was called Thatcherism, okay? Margaret Thatcher, the Thatcher revolution. And so now you need to transition away from the worker to something else, okay, another ideology that allows the elite to amass power. Okay? So just to show you how radical this revolution was in the 1970s Okay, 1970s if you were a CEO, the head of a company, okay, you were making, on average, 1 million US dollars a year. That's pretty good, right? That's really good money, and that $1 million was more than 20 times the worker, okay? And that's pretty reasonable. Today, the average CEO United States makes $20 million a year, and that is 200 to 300 times more than the average worker in the company. Does it make sense? So in the 80s, inequality start to explode, right? And so they're transitioning from the worker to a new organising unit called the consumer. Okay? So they needed to destroy the working class, the middle class, and the way they did it was by introducing a new concept called the consumer. Okay. So in the 50s, 60s and 70s, the government promised you a good job if you were a member of a society, if you are a citizen, I promise you a good job that you would have for the rest of your life. Okay. So in the 80s, the government said, I promise you that you have low prices and a wide selection of goods, okay? Does that make sense? All right, so this sounds like a subtle shift, going from the worker to the consumer, okay, but what this meant was a revolution in society, a revolution in politics. So remember that an example the worker. The worker has to have political consciousness in order to protect his or her rights, in order to organise and unify and push for favourable political reforms. Okay, that's what the worker must do, okay? But now let's think about the mentality of the consumer. And to do this, let's do another thought experiment. And the thought experiment experiment is this, everyone in the school, about 500 people. I decide to give everyone 1 million US dollars. Okay, so everyone in the school has exactly 1 million US dollars to spend. What happens? Now, think about this. What happens. Now, use your imagination. What happens? What's the first thing you do? You

Prof. Jiang  29:06  
What's the first thing you do? I've given you a million dollars. What do you do with it? Well, the first thing you do is buy something. Right? What do you want to buy a $1 million a lot of money. What? What do you want to buy? Now, you buy a house, right? That's great. That's a great purchase. Then what do you do? Then what do you do? You

Prof. Jiang  29:43  
okay, first thing is not buys a house. Then, then what does he do to me? Buy furniture. Then what does he do? There's something that he must do that's very important. What what does he buy the house? What does he want to do? He. He wants to take pictures and post on social media, right? So everyone sees it on social media, then you see this. Now, has this huge house in Beijing with lots of fancy furniture. What do you do now? You also want to buy a house, but what kind of house? A bigger house, right? And then what do you do? You also post pictures. Okay, then How do other people feel? You think this is funny, okay, but this happens all the time, so very quickly. What happens in the school? And, yeah, you all spend your money and you all go into debt, right? Because you're in competition with each other. You buy the biggest thing and $1 million a lot of money, but it's not enough to buy everything, right? So you go into debt. You borrow more money to buy more things, and then what happens. And

Prof. Jiang  31:12  
then what happens? How do you guys feel about each other? Do you guys have lunch together? Do you guys have dinner together? Do you guys like to share homework together. You guys hate each other. Right at the end of the day, what will happen is you all go into debt and you all hate each other, right? So that's consumerism. This is what consumerism is. Consumerism creates a competition in society for prestige, okay, to see who can pose the nicest social media pictures. This leads to the individualization or the optimization of you. Okay, in other words, you are now unable to act together. You don't want to organise. You don't want to act in solidarity, okay? And ultimately this means that you develop economic logic, okay? And what is economic logic? It's to see the world only through the lens of capital does it make sense. So when you when you see someone and you're like, Okay, well, do I want to date this person? You don't ask, Oh, is this person a nice person? You ask yourself, How much money does this person have? Okay, you understand. You use economic logic in order to understand the world and to reason and analyse the world. Okay. Now, let me ask you this question today. Is this how China works? Is this how the world works? The answer is yes. Okay, are you? Are you like this? Yes, you are like this. Okay, you've been brainwashed into thinking that this is the only way to behave and to think you're in school. Why are you in school? So you get a good job. Why? To make money and so you can buy things. Okay? You understand. That's how you all think. But there are different ways to think about school, right? You're like, I'm in school to learn, to open my mind, to have an imagination, to think critically about the world, right? And that was the way we thought about school when the workers were dominant, but now that consumers are dominant, all we think about is, how do I get a good job? How do I buy a bigger house? Because I want to post it on social media. Okay, so if you think about this, what this really is, is the perfection of slavery. Does it make sense? What does this phrase mean? The perfection of slavery?

Prof. Jiang  34:16  
Yeah, you become the slave of the money. But what? Why is this perfect? Yes, okay, if you're a slave, you rebel, right? But you don't know your slave and you like this, you choose this, then you will never rebel, okay, so the consumerism is the perfection of slavery. Okay? And that's why Francis Fukuyama thinks that consumerism is the end of history, because it is a system that achieves what the elites want and the masses are unwilling. Be unable to protest and rebel. Does that make sense? It's a perfect system. Okay, so. But there are certain civilizations that rebel against slavery. Intrinsically, it is in a nature to rebel against slavery, and one of the civilizations is the Russian civilization. Okay, so when you impose slavery on Russians, they become corrupt, they become alcoholics, and they refuse to have babies. That is why Russia is failing a society, because slavery is being opposed on Russians by Western by the Westerners, and the Russians refuse to be slaves. But because the system of consumerism is so perfect, Russian people lack a understanding of how to rebel against the system, and that's why Russia is falling apart. Okay, that is a Putin argument. Does that make sense? Okay? In other words, consumerism has corrupted the Russian soul, and Russians have chosen to be corrupted by consumerism. So does it make sense. So what Vladimir Putin must do is free his people, even though they may enjoy prison, okay, even though Russians may enjoy slavery, Putin is still going to free his people, and he's going to do it by creating a new concept to combat consumerism. Okay, so we've gone from the worker to the consumer, and Putin is going to introduce a new concept called the warrior. The consumer is a person, an individual, who acts alone and does so to preserve his or her life. Okay? The consumer is a coward. The consumer lacks imagination. The consumer is alienated. The worrier is different. The worrier is an individual who sees that through his actions, he or she can shape the direction of history. I can make my own reality through my courage and for my imagination and by acting with others. Okay, does that make sense? All right, so let's do another thought experiment to understand the warrior concept. Let's just say that, okay, in this school, I give everyone a million dollars, and now you hate each other, okay? Then what happens is, I put you on a plane and I take you all to an island, okay? And you're on this island, and unfortunately, on this island, there are millions and millions of flesh eating monkeys. They want to eat you, okay, but you hate each other. You don't want to work together. What happens now?

Prof. Jiang  38:19  
What happens now, yeah, that's right, if you don't do anything, everyone gets eaten by a monkey, right? But what are you gonna do? How you will fight the monkeys? By how will you fight the monkeys?

Prof. Jiang  38:41  
Okay, what's gonna happen is that everyone is gonna put aside the differences and work together to fight the monkeys. Okay? And how you feel in this process? Are you happy or depressed? You're gonna be happy. Why you

Prof. Jiang  39:06  
exactly you're all working towards a single, okay, structure, meaning and purpose. Okay, that's what war does. War gives you structure, meaning and purpose, so you feel happy about yourself. Okay? Now just say that during this war, like Celine dies. Okay, now, what happens? What does death do? Now? Yeah, yes, and so Celine dye, she was a martyr. You all celebrate her. Remember her. You give her a great funeral, and then what do you do? You fight harder. You understand because death gives you purpose. Her death makes your life much more valuable to you and to others. Okay, not only do you say. Celebrate her life, but you celebrate her your own life. Okay, all right. Now, let's just say that the monkeys are coming, okay? And there's a bridge, there's a bridge, and Jack is standing on this bridge, and there are 10 of you on the other side. Okay, so Jack has a choice. He can either cut the bridge and kill himself and save the others, or he can run, run and possibly all get killed right by the monkeys. What? What does Jack do? For sure, he will do this. What will he do? He he's gonna sacrifice himself, okay, do you understand? We've seen this in war over and over. Okay, that's what war does to people. It makes you it gives you structure, meaning and purpose, and it makes you a stronger, more disciplined person. Okay, does that make sense? Right? So that's the thought experiment. So in theory, then when Putin launched this military operation, it's called a special military operation in Ukraine back in February 2022, then we should see improvements in Russian society. Okay, does that make sense? So what's happened in Russia since this war? Are people happier? Do you think people are happier? Even

Prof. Jiang  41:34  
people are happier now, I think they are. You think people are more unified. I think they are okay. So one example of this is the Russian economy is surviving US sanctions. In fact, it's getting stronger and stronger. Why? Because people are fully participating in the economy now, okay. So an example of this is that every month Russia is producing 150,000 ammunition cells, okay, for the war, every month Russia is producing more ammunition cells, shells for the war. Okay, 150,000 Can you guys guess how much? How every, how much United States produce every month In comparison?

Prof. Jiang  42:31  
Guess, guess the number.

Prof. Jiang  42:38  
Jimmy, 100 100,000 100,000 2000 okay, you understand. So Russia is gearing towards a war economy. Its factories are producing more and more weapons, but that means more and more people are employed, which means that they're drinking less. Okay, when you have structure and meaning and purpose in society, all this goes down. Okay? Corruption goes down, alcoholism goes down, oh, sorry, fertility goes up, right? Does that make sense?

Prof. Jiang  43:16  
So last year, Putin made the statement, okay? He was asked, okay, you have a lot of Russians dying on the battlefield. And he said, Well, when they die on the battlefield, we honour them. They sacrifice themselves for their country. They will always be remembered as heroes. The families will always love them, but if we just let them do whatever they want, all they do is drink themselves to death. Okay, you understand? So Putin is saying is that what war is ultimately, it is a mechanism for society to rejuvenate itself. Okay, what war is. It's opportunity for society to cut away the fat, to make itself more lean. So for Putin this war, it's not really about conquering Ukraine or defending against NATO. It's really about saving Russian civilization. It's really about saving the Russian soul. Okay? Because you don't fight this war and you let these trends continue, then Russia will eventually cease to exist as a nation. Does that make sense? Okay? So what's going to happen is that, over time, a new concept will arise to challenge consumerism and liberal democracy, and we will call this concept Putinism. And the idea of Putinism is we. Really continuous war, that as a society, you should be constantly fighting wars in order to discipline, unify your nation, okay, and make your people stronger and more prosperous. That is Putinism, okay? And that, and I think this will be his defining legacy. And Putinism is a direct response to liberal democracy, okay? So we will shift as a society from one that is based on the consumer to one that is based on the warrior, does that make sense? Guys? Okay, any questions?

Prof. Jiang  45:54  
Oh, so Celine asked a question, how is capitalism different from liberal democracy, that's a great question. Okay, so capitalism is only concerned about capital. Okay, so you can be a fascist country and be capitalistic. So capitalism, many people say, leads to fascism. So Nazis were extremely capitalistic, and they see communism, the Soviet Union, as direct threat to its existence. Okay, the idea of a liberal democracy is the participation of everyone in the generation of capital. Does it make sense? So in other words, and this, this is, this is one of the ironies of the 20th century, is that capitalism and democracy are opposing forces, and the idea of liberal democracy is to put the two together in a synthesis as to explain away or ignore the contradictions. Okay, but capitalism and democracy are contradictions. Does that make sense? Okay? Any more questions?

Speaker 1  47:00  
Do maybe Putin like, over time won't, like a society be drained from like a war, like they fight too many wars, like there will be too much manpower.

Prof. Jiang  47:15  
Okay, so Jack makes a great point, which is, like wars that have been fought before have destroyed societies, okay? So think of Athens and Sparta, and think of World War Two and world one, okay, societies become exhausted and destroyed. So the idea of continuous war is you fight small scale wars so as to manage the size of the conflict, okay? And it's important to do that. Why? Why don't you want a large scale war? No, no, no, no, you what might happen in a large scale war. That's right. Okay. The problem is you have nuclear weapons in place now, okay, so it is not it's not smart to fight a large scale war. If you fight a large scale war, you can't really control the escalation. And eventually, say, United States and Russia fight a ground war in Europe, eventually they'll be so angry at each other they might have to use nuclear weapons. Okay, that's why, one of the major tenants of Putinism is you pick small contained conflicts. So Ukraine is a small contained conflict, okay? An innovation of France or invasion of Britain would lead to nuclear war. Does that make sense? Okay? And that's why the United States would also pick Iran, because Iran would be a small, contained conflict. Does that make sense? Okay? So, so this is the Putinism, okay? War is a mechanism to transform your society, whereas before we understood war as a mechanism to conquer others, okay, as imperialism or the spreading of civilization. Now the idea Putinism is no guys, we don't care about the other people. We care about ourselves. We're using war as basically a mechanism to discipline our bodies, just like the gym. Okay? Does that make sense? Okay? The thing about global leaders, world leaders is they're all insane, but they're not stupid. You understand there's a difference. They're happy to kill millions of people. They're not happy to blow up the world. But Jack's other point is that Russia is not a very wealthy country, right? Eventually you're going to exhaust yourself, and that's why we think war is usually a pyramid scheme. Okay? What that means is, so the exact example is Nazi Germany when there were. Fighting these wars, and it was costing their economy a lot of money, so they were forced to fight even more wars. Okay, that's what eventually led to Germany's invasion of Russia, because they needed the resources and the manpower, okay? And that's the same thing that will happen here where, okay, Putin is spending a lot of money to fight this one Ukraine, okay, but after, after he finishes one Ukraine, the needs, he needs to go conquer more territory for their resources. Okay, so in the long term, this could lead to disaster, okay, this could lead to a large scale war. But in the short term, it does work? Does it make sense? Any more questions?

Prof. Jiang  50:52  
Okay, so Selena asks a great question, which is like, eventually people are going to get exhausted, okay? And what Putin believes is that the Russians are a warrior culture, okay? Russians enjoy war. Russians are good at war, so Russians won't be exhausted by the by war. They'll be galvanised and energised by war. That's a theory, okay? And he's right. Okay. There are war cultures out there around the world that do enjoy fighting. Okay? So you think of the German people, right? The Germans have been fighting wars for 1000s of years, and been really good at it, okay, you think of Japanese. Japan is also a warrior culture that enjoys fighting wars, okay, China is not a warrior culture. It's very hard to Chinese to fight wars and Chinese, okay, so I hate to say this, but China would probably lose most wars, okay, it's not a war culture. So for Chinese civilization, war would be exhausting, but for Russian civilization, war can be energising and rejuvenating. Okay, does that make sense? It depends on your civilization. Okay, any more questions? No. Warrior

Prof. Jiang  52:29  
culture. Okay, so what's going to happen? And the answer is that warrior culture works right now, okay? Because where culture beats consumer culture easily. So you see the war in Ukraine, where Russians are destroying the Ukrainians and the Europeans are like, Ah, I'm too busy watching TV. I'm too busy buying things. I'm too busy vacationing. Okay, so consumers don't want to go to war, but eventually Russia is going to reach a point where it directly threatens Germany and France and Britain, and then they will start to transition into a war culture. So Putinism will become the dominant ideology for the next 50 years, okay, but Putinism can spread to other countries, okay? So Japan can adopt Putinism. Germany can adopt it. Britain can adopt it, okay. And so the world we call, so when this happens, we call this world multipolar. So the word we use is multipolar, okay? Or multipolarity, meaning that, like there are different centres of power throughout the world right now, there's only United States. It's a global hegemon. But over the next 1020, years, we expect a multipolar world, where each region has different hegemons, okay? Does that make sense. All right, any more questions the US

Speaker 1  54:05  
does fight a war in

Prof. Jiang  54:11  
Iran? Okay, so what happens United States? So next week we'll discuss United States, okay, but what I will show you is that if United States fights this war in Iran, what it has to do is retreat back to its borders. Okay, and that's become isolationist, but I'll explain that to you. I'll explain that to you next week. Okay, any more questions? Sorry, sorry. Go ahead.

Unknown Speaker  54:47  
Gather or gas the connected with what we're called. Can I put in the.

Prof. Jiang  55:05  
Skill like slavery, okay, so that's a great question. Okay, so we just said, like consumer culture is the perfection of slavery, but is word culture slavery? And you can make the argument that it's actually anti slavery. Why why? What can the warrior do that this consumer cannot do? What's the problem? What's problem with having a work culture really? See me no. What can warriors do that, that consumers will never do. Guys worries. Can rebel, right? Warriors can mutiny. The army can be like, You guys are terrible. We're going to rebel against you. Okay? You understand that? Does that make sense to you? Consumers don't do that because it was consumers like, Hmm, I'm gonna rebel. I'm gonna stop buying things. Don't do that. Okay? You'll never be like, I'm gonna stop buying things, because I think it's bad for the environment. You won't do that. Whereas wars like, you know what? I don't like this leader. Let's march to Moscow and get rid of him. They can do that, and they do that all the time. That's why war culture is so destructive, and that's why war culture was so dominant before, and then we got rid of it, because for political leaders, word culture is a direct threat. Does it make sense? Okay? So when in this question, this reveals a contradiction in Putinism, okay? What is the ultimate problem in Putin turning his entire country into a world war society. What's the problem with that? And it's a huge problem for Russia, and this is why, ultimately, Russia will not triumph in a multipolar world. In fact, it will probably, does? It probably fall apart? Why? For a war culture to triumph? What does it need?

Prof. Jiang  57:12  
Words fight best, When? When? What? When there's a king, guys when he's a king. That's why we have kings, right? So what's problem with Putin's Russia? What's gonna happen to Russia? Guys, eventually Putin's gonna die, you understand, eventually he's gonna die, and then what's gonna happen the country's gonna fall apart, which is a war culture, and you have these different generals fighting each other for total control. It's gonna be civil war. Okay? Putin, right now is a strategic genius. He's the king. Everyone admires him. So he unites everyone. He can direct off society into total war. When he dies, this society is gonna fall apart. Okay, that's why Putin's legacy will not be a strong Russia. It would be Putinism, the idea of continuous war Russia may not survive while Putin and quite honestly, when you have a great leader like Putin. It's impossible to replace him. All right, no one would have his genius and authority and ruthlessness, okay, does that make sense? Right? All right. And David, you had a question. I

Prof. Jiang  58:50  
Great. So David asked a great question, okay, how much of society agrees with Putin? And the answer is, like no one. Most people don't like to go to war, okay? Most people are scared by war, but ultimately, society is determined by those who are willing to act on their beliefs. Okay? So when we looked at America, look they issue a lobby. They're only a small faction, small fraction of the American population, like, less than 1% okay, but because they're willing to act, and they're organised, and they're determined they get their way. Does that make sense? Same, same thing in Russia, where at most, okay, I would say at most you have 10% who are like, Oh, Putinism is a great idea. Let's go conquer the world. Okay? At most. You have 10% most people are like, we want peace. We want to live our lives. We I have children. I want to I want my children to be safe. I don't want to send my children to war. Okay? But again, history is determined by those who are determined to act in unison. You. So it's usually the most extreme individuals who get their way. Does that make sense? Okay, but thanks for the question. Okay? Any more questions?

Prof. Jiang  1:00:21  
Okay, so Putin believes that Russia is first and foremost a great civilization, okay, but as a great civilization, it also has to fight wars to protect itself. You understand? So, Putin is like, you know what? If America left us alone, we would not fight wars. Okay? It's only because America insists on encircling us, insists on trying to destroy our culture, our civilization, that we must fight a war. Okay? Does that make sense? Right? And so what people say is, listen, the war in Ukraine, it's ultimately caused by NATO encroachment into Russia, right? So NATO, after Soviet Union fell, expanded five times guys. NATO was set up as a defensive, defensive alliance against the Soviet Union. Well, if you have a Soviet Union, you don't need NATO anymore. So why is NATO expanding? In fact, NATO was going to expand into Ukraine. So Putin is like we are fighting this war, ultimately, to defend our civilization. That's what matters, the defence of our civilization. If it requires us into going if it requires us to go to war, then we will do so, okay, and this is this process that will create Putinism, okay, or continuous war? Does that make sense? Okay? Any more questions?

Speaker 1  1:01:56  
Yeah, was mentioned probably in actually agree with Putinism, then is there possibilities that the other 90% people need to sacrifice their children to find a war for the wills of those 10%

Prof. Jiang  1:02:13  
okay? So even though only 10% agree with punditism, I actually don't know the real number, okay, but I think it's only a minority. What happens is that in war, people become much more unified, okay, so the example is Ukraine, where actually about 50% of the people in Ukraine were Russian speakers, okay? And there was a large group of people, at least a third, who are sympathetic towards Russia, but the moment that Putin invaded, they all united under Zelensky. Okay, so that's what war does. War unifies people. So again, back to the island. Example. You guys may hate each other when you land on the island. But hey, if there's a million flesh eating monkeys, I want to kill you, you guys are going to become a family. Okay, does that make sense? Okay, any more questions?

Prof. Jiang  1:03:17  
Is this clear to you guys? Okay? You look at so you want to ask a question. Are you confused by something? Celine, excuse me. Okay, so again, Russia is a warrior culture. It enjoys war. It's good at fighting wars, okay, but China is not a warrior culture. And the reason why is that throughout most of Chinese history, China was the dominant power, the hegemon, okay? Also, China is surrounded by natural defences, right? So to the east you have the sea to the south, and to the west, you have mountains. To the north, you have the Great Wall. Okay, so China doesn't feel threatened by anyone, and therefore it doesn't have a word culture. Does that make sense? But Russia is a huge country that's been invaded multiple times, and all these invasions were traumatic for Russia. So you look at the German invasion of the Soviet Union in 1941 that killed 20 million people. Millions of Russians died in that war, and people still celebrate that war, so China is not aware culture. Does that make sense? Any more questions. Okay, so what we will do? So next week is we'll talk about Putin's strategic genius, okay, and what I'll what I will show you, and this be interesting, is that the way that Russians see the world is rather different from the way we see the world. Okay, so we'll discuss Putin's strategy moving forward next class. Okay, does that make sense? All right, good. I'm.

