Prof. Jiang  0:00  
Okay, so today we will discuss Putin's plan to destroy the American empire. So last class, we discussed that Putin loves his country, Russia, and he believes that Western consumerism has corrupted his nation, and he recognises that the source of Western consumerism is the American empire. So in order to completely free its people, he needs to destroy the Empire. Okay, and historically, empires die when three things happen concurrently together. The first is over extension, and this is the main reason why empires die when they fight too many wars at once. And the reason why they're overextended is hubris. And what hubris is in military strategy is the idea of blindness. So you are blind to the fact of your own limitations. You are blind to the strategy of your opponents. You are blind to the overall geopolitical picture. You're just blind. And the example is American strategy nowadays, where America is fighting Russia and Ukraine, where it is fighting Hamas in Israel, and there's a threat of Iran on the horizon. But for whatever reason, most American policymakers believe that the real threat is China. We must prepare for China in the Taiwan Strait. Eventually, China will invade Taiwan, and we must be ready right now. This week, America also announced massive tariffs on Chinese electrical vehicles. And so America is engaged in all these wars at once. It's antagonising Russia, Iran, China, at the same time. And so that's just over extension because of hubris. Okay? Second, second way to kill an empire is debt. So the source of American power is the US dollar. Remember that in 1945 Bretton Woods, there was an agreement that the US dollar would become the reserve currency of the world, okay? And the word the phrase for that is exorbitant privilege. Exorbitant privilege just means that America has the right to manufacture gold from nothing, and the world has to buy it, because that's what underpins global trade, okay, but when you can do that, what happens eventually Is that your nation becomes fat, lazy and corrupt when money just falls off the sky. You just used to borrow money. Okay, so all America does right now is print money and not make money. The problem with this is that eventually the world is not going to want to us. Want to US, US dollars anymore, because each time you use it, you're being taxed right by the Americans. And that's what BRICS plus is. You may have heard of BRICS plus, and it's an organisation established initially by Brazil, Russia, in the China and South Africa in order to create its own financial system to counter the US financial system. But now there are more countries that have joined BRICs. Most prominently are Saudi Arabia and UAE and Baran. These countries, okay, they're important because they are the basis for the petrol dollar. Remember that all US dollars, US dollars can be used to purchase oil, and that's why US dollar is worth a lot of money. Okay, so these countries go to BRICS and opt out of the US financial system. Then basically this American mountain of debt, okay, $35 trillion of debt comes crashing down. Okay, that's the second way to kill an empire, and the third way is civil civil dissent, or eternal discord, civil. War, basically, and so what we're seeing in America right now is growing political polarisation, okay, between the left and the right. Why this happens is that people no longer believe the binding myths and stories that build a nation. Okay? Nowadays, young people no longer believe that America is the source of good in this world. An example what is happening is, of course, because Israel right now is committing genocide in Gaza. Right now, Israel is attacking Rafa and they're killing a lot of children. Most people who are dying in this war are children, and America is not doing anything to stop this. In fact, America is the one who is providing issue with all the weapons. So young people are turning against the idea of America as the good Empire, and there's this amazing statistic that one quarter of young Americans now believe that Osama bin Laden was a good guy, okay? And you know, when I grew up, Osama bin Laden was considered Satan, because he was the one who was responsible for terrorism around the world and for the 911 attacks. Okay, but this just shows you that the ideas and the myths that bind the country together are falling apart, and that's what's causing the nation to fall apart. Okay, so the more over committed America is, the more debt it creates, and the more civil discord it creates, okay, all right, so this is how you kill an empire. When all three things reach a tipping point, when it becomes too much, the Empire dies, okay? And the most likely outcome for America is it goes into civil war, okay, it descends into civil war, and that's something that I will discuss next class. All right, so let's discuss how Putin is doing this. Okay, so the first thing that Putin did was the Ukraine war, right? So in February 2022, Putin invaded Ukraine, and at that time, America was confident that three things would happen, okay. The first thing that would happen is that Ukraine would destroy the Russian army and perhaps even march to Moscow and overflow Putin. Okay, at that time, that's what the news media was reporting the Ukraine. Media was so much stronger and more confident than the Russian forces. Second thing was that the Russian economy would be destroyed. Why? Because America was imposing sanctions on Russia. So America, it controls the global financial system,

Prof. Jiang  8:05  
the ability to trade. America just basically sanctioned Russia and said You are no longer allowed to sell your oil on the black on the global market. Okay? And the belief was that this would cause Russia to collapse overnight, a lot of Western multinationals left Russia, and the United States froze $300 billion in Russian assets in US banks. Okay, so they thought that these us the United States, thought that these sanctions would destroy the Russian economy. Okay, that's the second thing that they thought would happen. And the third thing that they would happen was that it would make NATO much stronger and more united, and it would make Russia into a pariah state, meaning that no one would want to ever associate with Russia again. Okay, so that was the argument back then, and today, what we have seen is that the complete opposite has happened. Okay, so first of all, Russia has basically won the war, and it's won the war because of attrition, right? Ukraine has lost maybe 500,000 men in this war, so they have no more manpower. If you don't have manpower, you're not going to be able to fight this war. So this war has basically been lost, and Russia is dominant. Russia has basically achieved its main strategic objectives, which is basically the Donetsk region in eastern Ukraine. Secondly, not only has the Russian economy not been destroyed, but it's been doing extremely well, okay? And the reason why is that, ultimately, all economies China. India, Europe, Africa, Middle East, they all need resources in order for their economies to work. You need oil, you need food. And Russia has a lot of oil and food, and that's why countries have been going to Russia and making side deals. Okay? Also, Russia has been transitioning to a war economy, so its manufacturing base has been increasing. So overall, the economy has been doing a lot better. Okay? US sections have not been working. The Third of all, NATO has become more divided, less and less united. Why? Because Germany, which is the most powerful country in Europe right now, it's complete. It's completely dependent on Russian resources to fuel its economy. That's how the German economy works. It's a manufacturing economy. It takes cheap Russian gas, manufactures it into cars and sells it to China, okay, but the United States blew up the North Stream pipeline, okay, the North Stream pipeline, which connected gas, which basically deliver gas from Russia to Germany, and it's imposing a trade war on China. So basically the German economy is about to collapse, and Germans are very angry about this. So the Ukraine war has been a tremendous success for Putin, and it's really shown that America is a paper tiger, and it's also creating a lot of civil dissent in America, because the majority of Americans are asking the question, why are we giving Ukraine hundreds of billions of dollars when our people don't even have health Insurance? Our people are suffering, and we're giving Ukraine hundreds of billions of dollars. Okay? The other thing that this Ukraine war has exposed is that the American Empire is overextended. And what I mean by that is that in order to give Ukraine weapons, what America is doing is basically taking weapon systems from in Japan, in South Korea and other places, and giving it to Ukraine. Okay, so America is not manufacturing more weapons. It's just taking other weapon systems it has elsewhere and moving it to Ukraine. So America is badly overextended, okay? And of course, by giving all this money to Ukraine, it's causing American debt to go up. And after Ukraine loses war, this debt will be gone, okay, because Ukraine cannot pay it back. Okay, so right after Ukraine war, what happened next was on October 7 of last year, remember that Hamas launched an attack on Israel that killed about 1000 people, and Israel responded by attacking Gaza, and by doing this, this has helped Putin and has hurt the United States, okay, mainly by first of all, diminishing American prestige, right? Because America, right now, is helping Israel commit genocide. So the entire world is basically turning against America. Even the young people in America are turning against America. You know, these college protests in America, they will only expand in the fall, okay? And the other problem is that America, it's America, has shown it cannot control Israel. In fact, people say that Israel now controls America. And the third thing is that this war threatens to explode throughout the Middle East. Okay, at any point, Iran can enter the battle. Hezbollah can enter the battle from the North. Okay, so it's a it's a powder keg. It's like a lake of gasoline about to be lit on fire. So America is badly extended. Okay, so, and you can make the argument that either Putin knew about the Hamas attack or even encouraged the attack, okay, because the main winner of this Hamas attack is obviously Vladimir Putin, and the loser is America. Okay, so does this make sense so far? All right, so let's talk about the future, or what are predictions moving forward. So if it is true that Putin's intention is to destroy. The American empire by focusing on these three fundamental weaknesses in the empire, and if it is true that you start the Ukraine war to further the deterioration of the empire, if he is one who is abetting Hamas, then we can predict that Putin will continue to do certain things. Okay, the first thing that he will do is he will drag on the Ukraine war. So he will not end it. He will not seek peace. He will not negotiate peace terms. He will continue to drag it on. Okay? Why would he do that? Why not just declare victory? Why not just negotiate peace? Why would he want to drag it on? You?

Prof. Jiang  16:07  
Okay, yeah, the Russian people will possibly be at war. But then the question then is, why would he drag it on and not expand it? Right? He wants to drag it on, but he doesn't want to expand it. Expand it means he attacks Poland. He doesn't want to do that. He just wants to drag it on. Why? Yeah, okay. So, the real, the reason, is that Ukraine is turning out to be a black hole for NATO. NATO, in the United States, is pouring in all this money, weapons and manpower, and it's just losing it all. Okay? So in other words, Ukraine is a battlefield to increase American debt and create civil discord among NATO and America. Okay? Germany does not want to fight this war. Germany wants out, you understand? So as long as this war keeps on going, it's going to create more friction between NATO and United States, and that's what Putin wants. But if Putin attacks Poland, then all of NATO is forced to fight him. Does that make sense? So he does not want to expand the war. He just wants the war to maintain a status quo and for it to drag on. Okay, so that's the first prediction. Second is that to control the situation in Ukraine, he needs America to fight another war. He needs to distract America, and the distraction will be Iran. Remember how for the past few classes, we've been discussing how America wants to attack Iran, and Iran wants revenge against America, but for this to happen, what Putin needs to do is talk to Iran and guarantee that Iran will be protected by the Russian nuclear umbrella, which means that America will not be allowed to use nuclear weapons when it invades Iran, because Putin will respond with nuclear weapons of his own. Okay? Does that make sense? So as long as Putin comes to an agreement with Iran and say that I will use my nuclear weapons to protect you from us, nuclear weapons, then Iran will take the initiative and start to provoke America into a wider war. And again, there are many ways Iran can do that. Okay? It can use Hezbollah to attack Israel. It can expand its nuclear programme. It can disrupt red sea shipping. Okay, there are, there are lots of ways that Iran can use to provoke America into a false convaition, which is what Putin wants. All right, North Korea. So as United States becomes distracted in Ukraine and Iran, North Korea can now take the initiative, right? Because what North Korea can do is threaten to invade South Korea and about 30,000 US troops in South Korea. So North Korea doesn't actually have to do anything, but the threat of North Korea will force America to divert resources to South Korea. Does that make sense? Okay? And this will probably even have to force North South Korea, United States to start to bribe North Korea, okay? And we can expect that North Korea does this because Putin has given North Korea his assurance that He will protect North Korea in event of a war. Does that make sense? All right, bricks. We will see BRICS continue to expand. Okay, we will also see BRICS maybe formally announce a new currency or a new trading system to counteract the American LED system. Now, what people have said is that BRICS is not capable. Of replacing the US dollar. And that is true, okay, but remember that BRICS doesn't, it doesn't have to actually replace the US dollar. It can only it just has to threaten, because a lot of finance, a lot of money, it's just confidence, okay, you have the US dollar because you're confident that it's valuable, but once you lose the confidence in US dollar, you will no longer want to use it. Okay. Does that make sense? And the last thing is to maintain close relationships, to maintain a very close relationship with China. So Putin will come to China more often, and he and Xi Jinping will hug each other more, okay, they might even kiss one day. Who knows? Okay, but and again, listen, the reality is, if you look at game theory, there are lots of geopolitical differences between Russia and China, much more so than between China United States. But again, Putin doesn't actually need China to do anything. All Putin needs is for China not to work with United States. Okay? Because in this situation, one way that the United States can survive or protect its empire is by working with China. Right to triangulate against Russia. Does that make sense? So as long as China remains neutral, then Russia and Putin can continue to exert pressure on the American empire. Okay, so over the next three to four years, we should see all these things happen. Okay, so first thing is, the Ukraine war does not end. Putin will find a way for to drag on, but actually expanding. Okay, that's the first thing. Second thing is, Iran takes the initiative against United States. Third thing is North Korea starts being becoming much more belligerent against South Korea and Japan, forcing America to focus more attention in East Asia, Briggs will continue, continue continue to expand, and then the putting relationship with Xi Jinping will continue to blossom. Okay. Does that make sense? All right, any questions so far before I continue? Okay, that's a good question. So why would America want China's help? Okay? The first thing is, you have an over extension problem. Okay? You don't want to be fighting too many wars at once, so you come to a peace with China. You don't have to worry about East Asia anymore, because the real threat from Americans perspective is that China invades Taiwan. Okay, that's the first thing. Second thing is that China is a major buyer of US dollars because of its trade with America and because China buys a lot of oil, right? You want China to keep on buying US dollars so you can sustain the debt, okay? Does that make sense? And third of all, there are a lot of geopolitical conflicts between Russia and China. If you think about it, Russia is more of a threat to China than United States is. Okay? Does that make sense? Historically, Russia and China fought wars, many wars over the border. Okay? So if you become friends with China, then Putin needs to take the take the defensive and focus more on protecting the Russia, China border. It does that make sense? Because right now, Putin can just focus on the offensive, but if China is on the side the United States, then Putin is forced on the defensive. Okay, does that make sense? Okay, any more, any more questions you have. Peter recently, China, that's right, that's right, that's right. So basically, what's been happening is China is now no longer buying US dollars, and it's it's transferring its US dollars into gold. Okay, so China is encouraging everyone to buy gold. Don't buy any more US dollars. Guys buy gold, right? And the reason why is because America's debt is a huge problem for America, and the only way for America to sustain its debt is if China continues to buy US debt. Okay, does that make sense? Okay, but, but, but that's but that's a great point. Peter, any more questions before I continue, what's the incentive for China to have a closer relationship with Russia? Okay, so Jack asked a great question, all right, it makes sense for you, for China and United States to be friends, right? Because China exports a lot of commodities to United States. The United States is a huge market. United States also provides China with a lot of technology, right? And Jack asked the question, why would China want to be friends with Russia? And the answer is, Because China, right now, feels threatened by the United States. Okay, United States is launching an economic war against China, and if you look at a map, okay, China is surrounded by US military bases, and the problem is that China needs imports of oil and food to sustain its economy. Does it make sense? So if America ever launches a embargo against China. China collapses. Okay. So in other words, China needs to open up new trade routes, and the only way, and the best partner right now is Russia, because it has a lot of access to energy and oil. Okay, so right now, the situation in China is that Chinese policymakers know that the situation in China is terrible. The economy has collapsed, demographics has collapsed.

Prof. Jiang  26:09  
China is completely dependent on the world for oil and food. Okay? China is extremely vulnerable right now. If America says central world China is our enemy, then China has no choice but to find a new friend. And unfortunately, the only friend that China has right now is Russia. Does that make sense? Okay, so. But, but look, I mean the geopolitical situation for China, it's really, really bad. Okay, any more questions before I continue.

Prof. Jiang  26:47  
Okay, so Celine asked a great question, why does the United States think that China will attack Taiwan? And the answer is that America is always looking to start new wars. Okay, it has something called the military industrial complex, and America is always fighting wars. So to justify all this defence spending, it needs to find new enemies, and it believes that the greatest threat to American empire right now is China, even though, by the way, there's no evidence this is the case. Okay, right now, the relationship between the United States and China is China sends America a lot of cheap goods, and the US gives China a lot of US dollars. Okay, so basically, what's happening is that the Communist Party is storing the wealth of the Chinese people in American banks. This is a great deal for both America Wall Street and the Chinese Communist Party. Okay, so there's no reason for these countries to be confident with each other, but unfortunately, the American policymakers always need an enemy justify the incredible amount of money they spent on defence. Okay? Does that make sense? Any more questions before I continue?

Prof. Jiang  28:22  
I didn't. Understand the question, can you repeat that United States?

Prof. Jiang  28:33  
Oh, that's a great question. So what happens if China takes over Taiwan? What does America lose? And the answer is like, not that much. Okay, you make the argument that Taiwan has a semiconductor industry, but guess what? You can move that semiconductor industry elsewhere. Okay, for America, it's just one of phase. You understand, America doesn't really lose anything if China takes over Taiwan. But for America, it's the Empire. It has hubris, and therefore it must save face, right? Does that make sense? All right, all right. So this is Putin's plan to destroy the American empire. And so the question then is, well, this makes Putin in this makes Putin a genius. So how he's able to do this? And the argument I want, I want, I want to make to you today is that, for many reasons, Russian leaders have a strategic imagination. They just think differently and more strategically than anyone else. Okay? And so the example I want to use is Joseph Stalin, because we know, actually know a lot about Joseph Stalin. All right, so let's look at the world in 1939 you. In 1939 there are about six global powers, okay, there's Russia, there's Soviet Union, okay, there's Japan, there's United States, there's UK, Britain, the British Empire, Germany and France. Okay, so this is the map of the world in 1939 now let's talk about each country. United States is far away and it's neutral. It does not like to get involved in the affairs of Europe, but it's suffering from the Great Depression. Its economy has collapsed, okay? Japan, the Japanese Empire is a war machine, but the problem for Japan is that it is completely reliant on imports. Okay, it needs oil for its empire, its war machine, and there are only two sources of oil close by. There's the Soviet Union, Far East, and then there's Southeast Asia. Okay? Now, Japan is getting most of its oil from the United States, but the United States is angry at Japan. Why is Jesus angry at Japan? You guys know exactly, okay, because Japan invaded China, and the United States doesn't want that. Okay, so it's very likely the United States will eventually cut off all exports to Japan, and so Japan has a choice. You can either invade here or you invade here. But that's those are your two choices. Okay, that's Japan. You can either invite the Soviet Union or Southeast Asia, okay, the Soviet Union is a communist country, and for the past 2030, years, it's been trying extremely hard to industrialise, but it's hard to industrialise because first of all, no one wants to trade with the Soviet Union. Okay? So, so they can't get any resources. The Soviet Union is still very much an agricultural nation, and the Soviet Union doesn't really have that much technology and expertise, okay, doesn't really have that much human capital. So Soviet Union, it's a huge country. It's the world's largest country. It's an empire, but in terms of manufacturing and technology, it's behind the West, okay? Now in Europe, there are three nations. You have France, Germany and the UK. The UK, it's an empire, okay? It has colonies around the world. Germany lost World War One, and so it has to pay all these reparations to UK and France, okay, and now Hitler is in power, and Hitler is determined to reunite Germany, okay, because Germany lost a lot of land because of World War One, okay, so he wants to reunite greater Germany. Okay, that's his ambition. It's not to conquer the world. Is to reunite Germany, all right? And then you have France, which is the weakest of all these powers, but it's still as an empire, okay, so looking at a map in 1939 and we use game theory, what should be happening, or what should happen maybe five years from now, 1945 okay, let's, let's, let's use game theory to map out what should be happening or what will happen, given this map and given the individual players the interests of these different nations, what do you expect to happen? Who does everyone hate? Who does everyone hate? Who does everyone want to like, go invade?

Prof. Jiang  33:54  
Why? Why does everyone want to invade the Soviet Union?

Prof. Jiang  34:04  
Okay, yes, first of all, it has a lot of resources, and it's not that strong, okay, that's the first reason. But there's actually a better reason why everyone wants to attack the Soviet Union, why what's happening internally in United States right now, the Great Depression? What ideology is a threat to the American government, communism, okay, do you understand? So there's a global communist movement in 1930s that's very, very powerful, in fact, in 1930s and you guys don't know this, but America was on the brink of revolution, okay? The communists could have any time, took over America, if America failed to stop the economic bleeding that was happening, all right? So everyone was afraid of communism. Japan would have loved to invade Soviet Union, because Japan hates communism, and Soviet Union has all the oil, right? So here comes Japan. Germany would love. Off to destroy the Soviet Union because Nazis hated who the most. Who did Nazis hate them? Hate who the most? Why do they hate Jews? What did Hitler believe about Jews? Okay, they control the world economy. But there's actually a better reason why he hated Jews. Hated Jews. Well, what's the problem with Jews? You guys don't know this, but they were all communists. Okay? Hitler thought that all Jews were communists. So Hitler hated first and foremost communism. Okay? Nazism hated communism the most. So Hitler wanted a Soviet Union. How about friends in the UK? How about friends in the UK? What do they want to do? What do they who do they hate Russia? Right? Soviet Union, United States? Sure. Why not? Okay. Do you understand so 1945 it was just Game Theory. Okay, we should have expected that Soviet Union would have been partitioned into different countries, okay, these powers would have invaded the country together and colonised the Soviet Union and destroyed the threat of global Communism once and for all. Okay, does that make sense? But that's what happened, right? That's not what happened. What happened was that in 1939 Hitler invaded Poland, okay, and when the moment that Hitler invaded Poland, France and Britain declared war on Germany, and then Germany defeated France and Britain, okay, Britain was forced To return to its to its island, but Churchill refused. To seek peace with Hitler. In fact, Hitler tried to seek peace with Churchill seven times, and each time, Churchill was like, go to hell. We're going to fight this war till the end. Why was Churchill so angry at Hitler? What happened?

Prof. Jiang  37:27  
Because Germany destroyed the British Army, right? It's a complete loss of faith for the British Empire. So Churchill was very, very angry at Hitler, and Churchill refused to ever negotiate with Hitler. In fact, Hitler sent this emissary called Rudolph Hess to Britain, to Scotland, to negotiate a truce, and churches put him in prison. But what's the irony of all this? Germany invades Poland. What does Germany invade Poland? You guys know? Have you guys studied this history? Okay, it's because of something called the molotov Ribbentrop pact. So this was an agreement between the Soviet Union and Germany to partition Poland into two. You understand. So Germany and Soviet Union invaded Poland together. Soviet Union, the Soviet Union attacked from the east, and the Germans attacked from the west. But what happened was Britain and France declared war in Germany, but not the Soviet Union. Okay, that's pretty clever Stalin, don't you think, in fact, you can make the argument that if this thing was not signed, Hitler would not have attacked Poland, okay? And the reason why, is the other thing about this pact is that Soviet Union agreed to give Germany resources for its war machine, oil and food and other inputs. Okay. Does that make sense? Because, remember, Soviet Union has to Ukraine, which produced a lot of food and oil, okay. Does that make sense? All right. Next thing that happened was that in June 1941 Operation Barbarossa, so Hitler invades the Soviet Union. Okay? And if you read history, anyone will tell you that this Operation Barbarossa was a tremendous success for Germany and a strategic failure for Soviet Union. It was a grave mistake, strategic blunder for Stalin. Okay, what did Stalin do wrong? Well, first of all, if. He refused to defend the border. Okay, there were four to 5 million Soviet troops at the border defending Soviet Union, but they were given direct orders to, not to, not to, not sorry, given direct orders not to provoke the Germans. You understand, the Germans fire, you don't fire back. And because of this order, a the German army, which was about three to 4 million, was able to overrun the border and almost reach Moscow. Okay, that was a great mistake on the part of Stalin. Second is that Stalin ignored intelligence. There was a lot of intelligence that said that Germany was going to invade the Soviet Union. How can you hide the fact that you have 4 million troops assembled to attack the Soviet Union? Okay, so there's a lot of intelligence going to Stalin and telling Stalin, hey, the Germans are coming. And Stalin said, Nope, I refuse to believe this intelligence. In fact, you had German soldiers desert the German army, swim across the river to the Soviet side and tell the Soviets, hey, my comrades, the entire army is about to attack you. And the Soviets shot these German soldiers because they fought. These German soldiers were spies. Okay, so Stalin ignored intelligence. The third thing that Stalin did was, before the outbreak of war, he purged the Red Army, the Soviet Army, of its leadership of generals. Okay? So the top generals of the Soviet Army, the Red Army, were all dead or in prison because Stalin got rid of them for not being politically loyal enough, okay? And but the fourth thing is, why is, why did Stalin do this? And the answer is, what historians will tell you, is that Stalin trusted Hitler. Okay, this was the ultimate mistake that Stalin made. Stalin believed Hitler was his friend. He believed that Hitler would never invade him. Okay? And so this is what you're taught in history class. When you go the United States, you'll be taught this. When you go on the internet, you'll be taught this, okay, this is completely wrong. This analysis is completely wrong. All right, so we're gonna use game theory to understand why this is wrong. All right, so using game theory, let's look at four possible scenarios. Okay, Scenario A is Soviets attack first, and they encircle Berlin. Seconds. Second scenario is Soviets attack, okay, and they're stopped at the border. Scenario C is Soviets attack, sorry, Germans attack, and the Soviets stop them, okay, and Scenario C is Germans attack and they reach Moscow, okay, which is actually what happened. All right, so these are four possible different scenarios that could have happened in June 1941 all right, remember that there were four to 5 million Soviet troops at the border. Okay. What were they doing there? They were about to attack Germany. The Soviets had a plan to attack Germany, but the Germans struck first. Okay, so let's look at these four possible scenarios and see what happens. First scenario is the Soviets attack Germany first, and they reach Berlin. What happens now? What happens now? What do all what do all the other countries do? Yes, do you understand? Stalin reaches Berlin boom. Japan comes from the east Russia. Britain comes to the aid of Germany, United States comes to the aid of Britain. All the world unites against the Soviet Union. Okay, so what would happen in this war? The Soviet Union loses this war. Do you understand? Okay, now let's look at B the Soviets invade, but the Germans stopped them at the border. Okay, now what happens? Now? What happens? Yeah, so Japan still invades, okay, um. And Britain starts to negotiate with Germany and seek a peace, because Britain cannot afford for the Soviet Union to overrun Germany based on all because then communism takes over Europe. Does that make sense? Okay, so in B, we can't say that trivia would lose, but they would not win the war. Okay, you understand. So B is not that good either. And let's look at C, the Germans attack and the Soviets hold them at the border. Now, what happens?

Prof. Jiang  45:33  
Now? What happens? They just destroy each other, right? United States, Britain, Japan, they're all laughing. They're like, Oh, they're just killing each other. Who cares? Not a problem. Okay? But now let's look at situation D, where the Germans attack and they are about to destroy the Soviet Union. What happens now the other countries have to come and help the Soviet Union. Why? Why? Why is it the United States and Britain must come to help the Soviet Union? Why? What would happen if Germany takes over the Soviet Union? That's right, okay, they take over the resources, therefore they take over the world. You understand because Germany has technology, it has military power, but it lacks resources. You combine the resources with the German military, they are invincible. Now the United States will be forever shut out of the world. Germany will not invade the United States. The United States would never, ever attack Germany again. Does that make sense? So what happens is the after the Soviets invade, sorry, after the Germans invade and the Soviet Army is destroyed, America immediately gives the Soviet Union a lot of aid, okay, it's what we call land lease from 1941 to 1945 I America gave $200 billion to Soviet Union for free. Okay? It gave weapons, resources, technology and food. Basically what America did was industrialise the Soviet Union. Does that make sense? That's what America did. Soviet Union could not industrialised by itself, but America helped Soviet Soviet Union to industrialise. Let's look at lendles. Okay, weapons. America gave Soviet Union 1/3 of all ammunition used in the war, 1/3 of all explosives, one half of all aircraft, 14,000 aeroplanes, one half of all tanks, 13,000 tanks. Okay resources, America gave oil and food, 80% of all copper, 55% of aluminium, of aluminium and steel. Okay technology, America gave the Soviet Union radio technology, radio communications, railroad transportation, heavy industry and lots and lots of food. Okay? In other words, America basically built the Soviet Union in heavy industry for it, okay. Does it make sense? And also, at the end of the day, what Soviet Union can do is reverse engineer all this technology and build its own industry. Does that make sense? Okay, so then these really turned the Soviet Union into a superpower, and Stalin could get all this for free, because America cannot afford for the Soviet Union to lose the war. Okay? What's the other benefit of having the Germans attack first and almost destroy Moscow? What's the other benefit? And Stalin really needed this. This is actually more important than LendLease, which is what you

Prof. Jiang  49:04  
national unity right now, all the Soviets were united in the fight against Nazi Germany. Before communism was tearing the country apart, there was a civil war. The rich people all fled the country, right? But now, because the Germans were invading, were invading, the entire country was united against Germany. This is what they call the Great Patriotic War. They were fighting this war for the love of their country, the love of mother, Russia. Okay, so, and what turned the war was the will to fight.

Prof. Jiang  49:47  
The Russian the Russians lost 26 million people in the war. That's a lot of people, but by losing this many people, it made the entire nation refuse to surrender. They had the will to fight. Okay? Much more so than in Germans. Does that make sense? Okay? So in history, you're taught that Operation Barbarossa proved that Stalin was not a strategic genius, that he was played by Hitler. But if you just do game theory analysis. This was the best possible outcome for the Soviet Union. Okay, in 1939 the world should unit against the Soviet Union, but what happened was the world united against Nazi Germany and gave Soviet Union the technology, the money and the resources to become a global superpower, right? Doesn't make sense. And because Soviet Union became a global superpower, it was able to turn China into a communist country. Does it make sense? If so, Soviet Union did not become a global superpower of all this heavy industry, then China would not become a communist power. Mazarin would not have won the war. Okay? So in other words, all this is telling us is that Stalin is a genius. He turned a losing war into a winning war in Okay, so last thing I want to do is, okay, fine. How was Stalin able to do this? What makes the Russian imagination different from the Western imagination? Okay, so I would, I would say three things. The first thing is just intuition. And intuition means that Putin and Stalin, they're able to read the political winds, okay? They're able to sense the mood of the world. The German's word for this is zeitgeist, okay, spirit of the times. But they're able to sense the mood of the world. Okay, Putin knows that the American Empire is about to die, and so he feels important to act. So it's intuition. Second is imagination. So Putin and son both have a strategic imagination, which means like, okay, they sense these wins, but they can also imagine, hey, if I did this, how would these wins change? Okay, that's an imagination to able to predict or imagine the future. And the last thing, which is the strangest of all is multiple personalities, meaning that Putin and Stalin are such brilliant men that they embody multiple personalities in them, and that's why they're so unpredictable. All right. So the example is this. Everyone says that Stalin trusted Hitler, so Hitler played Stalin. But if you just look at, if you just analyse the game, okay, then the conclusion is Stalin played Hitler. You understand Hitler did everything that Stalin wanted him to do, Hitler invaded Poland, which caused German which caused France and Britain to clear war on him. Okay, then Hitler attacked Soviet Russia, which brought America into the war and helped the Soviet Union become an empire. You understand, so, Hitler was completely played by Stalin, and the answer is, so the question then is, how? Because, in 1941 June, 1941 Hitler did not have to invade Soviet Union, okay, he could have waited for Stalin to invade him, then the opposite would have happened, right then America would have joined the war on Hitler's behalf, and they would have defeated the Soviet Union. Okay, so what convinced Hitler to do the most insane thing and invade Russia first. And the answer is, Hitler trusted Stalin. Does that make sense? All right, so imagine this Hitler and Stalin, they're having drinks, okay, they're both drunk, and they're on the porch and they're staring at the mountains of the moon. Okay? And Stalin and Hitler are talking, and all someone has to do is say three words, and then Hitler is like, I'm gonna come invade you. What are these three words? How can Stalin get. Hitler to invade Russia. What are the three words that Stalin can say to Hitler? I trust you. Okay? I Joseph Stalin, trust you out of Hitler. I don't trust anyone. I don't trust my own mother, but I trust you, Hitler. Okay, then why would Hitler invade

Prof. Jiang  55:31  
Exactly, okay, because Hitler thinks now that Stalin is his target, as Jack says, Stalin is a sheep. I Hitler. Am a lion, I'm a wolf, you're a sheep, therefore I eat you. You understand? Okay, and But Stalin could only do this if he had multiple personalities, okay, Stalin had to be a sheep in front of Hitler. He could pretend he had to be. Does that make sense? Okay, so this is these three things are the Russian strategic imagination, the ability to feel the political winds of the moment, the ability to prophesize and predict, the ability to be multiple individuals at once, and that's how Stalin was able to win World War Two, and this is why Putin will be able to destroy the American empire. Okay, any questions? Okay, so sitting asked the most important question, okay, why are the Russians different? Okay, all right. So the problem isn't Russia. The problem is us, the West. Okay, so when we talk about the West, Western thinking, it comes from British thinking. And there are three distinct characteristics of British thinking that's different from Russian thinking. Okay, all right, let's look at British philosophy versus Russian philosophy. All right. The first major difference is that British philosophy tends to be narrow, whereas Russia tends to be broad, okay? The reason why is, Britain is an island, therefore it thinks very narrowly about the world. Whereas Russia, it's a huge country, it's the world's largest country, therefore it thinks very broadly about the world. And to understand the difference, what you do is you read British literature and compare it with Russian literature, okay? Russian literature, you have Leo Toy Story, right? War and Peace and a carinina, okay? These are very huge epics. And then British literature, you have Jane Austen, Thomas Hardy. They're great, okay, but they're very narrow in their focus. So that's a big first big difference. Second big difference is British philosophy believes in the idea of empiricism. Okay. Empiricism is a philosophy developed by British philosopher like David Hume, and the idea is we can only know what we experience. We can only know what we see, okay, so another word for empiricism is the idea of scepticism. Be sceptical of abstract philosophy, okay? Because we can never know it. For example, you're gonna never really understand mathematics, because mathematics is beyond your experience. Okay, you can only know what you experience, okay, and it's true, but it's very but it limits your imagination. Okay? The Russians believe in mysticism. So they're very spiritual, religious people. So there are forces we don't understand. There are individuals who are prophets, who are sent to us by God. We can never know who they are. We can never know how they think, but we just have to believe that's the case. Okay, so the Russians are going to be much more mystical in their thinking than the British are, okay? And the last thing is, the British believe in logic, okay, like, it's like mathematics. You can go from one to two to three to four to five, okay, everything has to be logical. Everything has to be connected together. Whereas the Russians, they believe in intuition, okay, you can jump. You can imagine things. You don't have to be logical, whereas the British say you have to be logical. And these three ideas, Nero, empiricism and logic, they created the Western mind of today. Okay, so this is what dominates in academia. So when you go off to university, they expect you to think in this way, narrow, empirical and logical, okay? And if you think about it, this is perfect if you want to build a bureaucracy, right? This is bureaucratic thinking. This is the bureaucratization of the imagination. Okay? You're not allowed to say things without evidence and logic and experience, okay? And the Russians don't have this, so they can do this all right. Now, there's obviously more good things about the system than about this system, but the problem with the British system is like no great man could ever arise from Washington society. Does that make sense? Because all this creates a process orientated, systemized, bureaucratic style of thinking. Okay, so, for example, I give this talk, right? I could never give this talk in America or Britain, because they will all think I'm crazy. Does that make sense? They're like, what's your evidence for this? Wait. Are you refuting decades of scholarship about World War Two? Are you telling me that Stalin was a genius when no one thought he was a genius? How dare you refute these 1000s of scholars who have put all this work into World War II scholarship. Hey, do you understand? All right, so in the British system, no one like Putin can arise, but in the Russian system, someone like Stalin and Putin can arise. The problem, though, is that what happens if you don't have put in or style it? Well, then you're then this system, this system becomes very weak, okay? Does that make sense? Okay. So the British system doesn't really need great leaders, but the Russian system, you do need great leaders. And if you are a great leader, then you are allowed to completely follow your intuition and imagination to do great things, like Joseph Stalin in World War Two and what Putin is doing today. Okay, does that make sense? Okay, any more questions?

Prof. Jiang  1:02:41  
Oh, that's a great question. Okay, so last semester, we said the Greeks and the Greeks are more like the Russians than they are like the British okay. So the Russian system, the Greek system, it's a much more natural human system, okay, and the British system, basically, it's trying to remove intuition and imagination from the decision making process, from the intellectual process, because intuition and imagination are too mysterious. Okay, so in other words, okay, let's just say that I'm Joseph Stalin in World War Two, okay, 1939 for me to execute my plan, I need to write a memo detailing my thinking. Okay, now, obviously I can't do that, because I did that. First of all, I couldn't execute my plan. But second, it would confuse everyone, like, like, like, what are you trying to do again? Do you understand? Okay? And so, so the Greeks believed in imagination and intuition as well, okay, but not the British, and we live in a British system, okay, all right, any more questions you like the current, okay, so Jack asked a good question, okay, how, like, how much did the Greeks influence the British? And the answer is not very, not that much. Because remember, like, after the Greeks from the Romans, the Romans were like this, and there was a Romans who influenced the British, who then influenced Americans. Okay, so we're living basically in a Roman world as opposed to a Greek world, right? Does that make sense? Okay, any more questions?

Prof. Jiang  1:04:42  
So, um, this is a really hard question, okay, what influences Russia? Well, I mean, what the Russians will say is that they're a Christian nation, that they come from a Christian Christian tradition, and the Christian tradition comes from a Greek tradition. Okay, so. Right? Does that make sense? So, Christianity, Christianity? They would say that Christianity is the main influence, okay? And there's, there's some Greek elements to Christianity. What the Russians say is that their Christianity is a more pure or more ancient form, form of Christianity, okay? Because remember, like when we studied when we studied Christianity. Christianity changed over the centuries, right? So basically, this is a pre Augustine Christianity, okay? Before Augustine? Any more questions? Okay, great, so next class we do the American Civil War. Okay? Do.

