Prof. Jiang  0:01  
So we have 10 more classes left in the lecture series. And these 10 classes, what I'm going to do is I'm going to show you how the American empire will fall. And I will show you that what will replace the American Empire is Israel, what we call Pax Judaica. So for these next 10 classes I will, we will do an overview of history and show you why history will lead ultimately to the past. Judaica, okay, all right, so let's do some questions from YouTube that my wife has picked out. She reads all the comments. She loves reading the comments, and she sends comments to me to reply to, okay, so the first comment is, how do we restore our right hemisphere, or how do we become more creative? And the answer is that you have to reject materialism. That's the only way. Okay. You have to reject money, you have to reject power. You have to reject materialism in order to embrace your creativity and your right hemisphere as a society, what will have to happen is a major crisis that threatens our existence, for us to come together and for us to be more altruistic and more creative. A possibility is that if you really want to activate your right hemisphere. Then you fall in love and you have children, or you could also choose to volunteer help other people, be kind and generous to other people. Okay, so that's how you activate your right hemisphere. Second question is, do you only give lessons to one class? How's your journey to find some LSD, okay, so I have, I'm only teaching one lecture series, but to three different sections, okay. LSD, psychedelics. You know, I'm very interested in psychedelics. I myself do not want to partake in psychedelics because I don't really understand why I need to. I read a lot of books. I practice a very altruistic lifestyle, and therefore I don't feel as though I need psychedelics to break out all this materialistic world. Okay, I'm already connected to the mind. So, yeah, okay, let's move on. All right, so more questions. Could you make a video on how to understand history about bias? And a response is, first of all, it's impossible to be unbiased, okay? And that's and that is correct. We're all subjective. So he suggests that you have to look at documents and try to be really critical when you analyse documents. And that's correct as well. Okay, the problem is that often we don't have documentation, or we have documentation from only one source, so it's very hard to do. So what I'm trying to do with this class is try to propose a new theory of how to understand history. And if you adopt this model, I guarantee you that your understanding of history one proof, and also your understanding of how the world works one proof as well. So there are three components to this new history model, which I call predictive history. Okay, the first is to understand historical patterns, and so when you try to look at history and the event there, you ask yourself, Does this fit into a larger pattern or model of history? If it does, it's probably correct. If it doesn't, then there's something wrong here. Okay. Second tool is idea of game theory. And the idea of game theory is to understand that all historical actors are motivated by their interests or worldview, and so are you looking at all different historical actors, and are you trying to figure out what their best strategy is, okay? And the third facet is the idea of religious eschatological. What this means is that all cultures, all individuals, have a certain religious outlook, religious worldview. You can often find this worldview within their sacred texts, for example, the Bible or the Quran, okay, and these texts will give you insight as to how they perceive history, but also how they want history to eventually develop. So you can understand the strategies moving forward. Okay, all right, and we will look at these three strategies and we will adopt we will adopt them for our historical understanding. Okay, all right, another question is, this is really interesting. What the question is, most of the greats across the street were not Jewish. The domination by Jews of various industries is a relatively new phenomenon. Is it possible that their creativity. In power as a result of political shifts in education in the Bible. Okay, this is a really good criticism of my previous lecture. And, yeah, I mean, the idea is that maybe there's certain aspects of the Jewish culture that makes them dominant in an industrial, capitalistic, globalised world. And there is some truth to that, but I often think about Chinese people, because Chinese people are extremely materialistic, like China. Chinese love money, but we're not as creative as Jewish people. So I think that being materialistic, being capitalistic, it's not enough. You also need to have an element of creativity within your culture, and that's why I think that the Bible helps us better understand the success of Jews better. Okay, so, so this is a really good point, and also it's really important to understand, is that this is a class on intellectual speculation. Okay, we're trying to figure out theories. We're trying to play with ideas. There's no truth there. Okay, so take everything I say with grain of salt. Doubt whatever I say, this class is really meant to be a platform or jumping board for you to undertake your own intellectual journey. Okay, all right, so please keep that in mind, but we're going to look more closely at this question today. Okay, why is it that Jews are so dominant? So we will look at the beginning of the Jewish people. And I'm like the argument to you that Israel and the Jewish identity are constructs of Imperial imagination, okay? And this is hard to understand, so I'm explaining too slowly. But the idea is that, because of its geographic location, Israel has always been historically important, and as a result, different empires have tried to manipulate the identity of Israel to best promote their own agenda or policies. Okay, so I know there's a hard time to understand, but we'll go for it slowly. And again, we're spending, like the rest of semester on this major thesis of ours, okay, so let's talk about history. Okay, so what we did last week is look at the cultures that have emerged on the project collapse, which are now going to dominate history. Okay? They are the Greeks, the Persians and the Israelites. Okay, now we're going to look at how these ideas play out in history, but for us to do that, we first need understand how history works. Now I divide three different patterns of geopolitics, okay? And I want you guys to remember these patterns. The first pattern is this. This is really important. I didn't understand competition within nation states are what matter. Okay, competition between nation stones don't really matter, or they're not as significant as competition within nation states, and the idea we have here is elite overproduction. So what drives a lot of conflict is the fact that domestically, you have these different competing factions, and they're all competing for power. Okay, so you have too many elites, too few status positions, and so they're competing against each other. This strikes a lot of conflict. Okay, so that's the first idea. Second idea is that the elite have shifting loyalties. Okay, think of Game of Thrones. I'm not sure if you guys have seen the TV series or read the books Game of Thrones, but everyone wants to be king, right? And they're gonna kill their brother, they're gonna kill the father, they're gonna kill their mother to be king, okay? And so the elite don't really have loyalties except to themselves. The world is just a game of thrones, okay? Now third thing is that war can be a mechanism to protect the status quo, all right? The idea of equilibrium in that sometimes the conflict is really bad. So what you do? You start a war so you can start off people to get killed, okay? And that way you can maintain equilibrium within your system. We'll see this in we'll see this pattern throughout human history, okay, so these are the three ideas I want you guys to remember as we move on and discuss world history. All right, so let me give us an example for us to understand. Okay, think of the Warring States period of China, before the emergence of the first empire, the Qing empire, okay? And as you can see from this map, China is divided into different warring states that are all powerful and at the same history,

Prof. Jiang  9:42  
the Qing empire, sorry, the Qing state is the poorest. It's most isolated, and it is the least advanced, okay, you can see that to Zhao, they are more powerful. And you can argue that eventually one, one of them would emerge. To unite all China. But they did not. It was the Qing, the isolated, marginalised, backward state, that came to conquer and so the question is, why did this happen? And so if we use our three principles, right, we can understand why these three states, these different states, are not competing against each other. It's the elites within these states are competing against each other, okay? Lead over production. So the way they manage this is for them to use warfare in order to maintain a status quo, to create equilibrium, okay? And how we know is from this time emerges the idea of Chinese chess, right? What is Chinese chess? Chinese chess is the idea of warfare that is regulated, that is ritualised, okay? So we go to war. We battle each other. We have to respect each other's the rules of the warfare. That's stupid. War should be about killing another guy. It should be about following the rules. Okay? Also, another piece of evidence is at this time in history, SHUNS THE wrote the book The Art of War. This is one of the stupidest books ever written. Okay, I guarantee you, if you follow this book, you're gonna lose the war badly, because this is, this is really about how to cheat in a heavily regulated game, okay, so things like using spies, oh, uh, making a Hierarch, okay, you have all these rules. And guess what? In actual war, none of these things actually work. Okay, so if you look at history, I'm going to tell you exactly how to win a war, okay? And the way you win a war is, first of all, you have to be completely committed to winning this war, okay, total warfare. Second is that if you want to win this war, you have to make sure that talent arises. So you have to be open and meritocratic, okay, if the officer of a general is winning this war, you promote him. That sounds easy, right? But not if you're a status quo power, because what's important to you is to maintain that your family is always on top. So if a general arises who is very innovative, who is really talented, you kill him, because he's a threat to you. Okay, so the third principle is, make sure your soldiers are happy. I know it sounds really simple, but again, if you're out of school power, you don't really care. Okay, destroy enemy, civil centres, siege warfare. Okay, go and destroy the city, because that's how they produce their war capacity, right? The food the soldiers, right, kill civilians, destroy supply lines, overstretch your enemy, divide and conquer, strike fear in your enemy, kill their gods, okay, if you really want a war, if you really want to win a war, this is what you have to do. And we know because this is what the Romans did. This is what the Prussians did. This is what the Aztecs did. This is what conquests did. This is what the Mongols did. Every single power that has conquered everyone else has done all these things. Okay? So when they don't do these things, it's because these different warring states aren't actually at war with each other. They're actually friends, okay? They're all intermarried with each other. They're all trying to maintain a status quo. They use war as a game in order to maintain the status quo, to create equilibrium. Okay. So this is true for Mesopotamia, okay, Mesopotamia is important because, remember, this is the cradle of civilization. This is where the first empires will emerge. This is where most technological innovation happens. This was, for the longest time the wealthiest part of the world. Okay, so remember the idea of Mesopotamia is that this first city state is Urich, and then they will develop colonies throughout the Tigers and Euphrates, and then these colonies will come into war with each other, and they're all friends of each other. They're all intermarried, and the elite create these highly ritualised warfare okay? And one really important rule is that you don't kill each other's god, okay? Because in their religion, the God lives in their temple, so you don't attack their temple. But guess what? All their money, all their gold, isn't a temple, okay? So you're not allowed to steal each other's gold. That's stupid, okay? Because now you don't accomplish that much with warfare. So for the longest time, this was the status quo. And then what happened is a man named Lucas Lucas zagazin, okay? And you can think of him as lower nobility. So what we'll see in history is that within a city state, there's always been conflict between the upper nobility and the lower lower nobility, okay, the upper nobility is in charge. They want to maintain a status quo. The lower nobility want to steal that power. Okay, this will have. Been in Rome, where Julius Caesar is of the lower nobility, and he will steal the power from the upper nobility. Okay? The people call the Ultimates, and so Lucas, like legesi, is from uma and he's like, You know what? Screw this. These rules are stupid. I want to conquer everyone. I want to be the top dog. Okay, so what he's doing that's very different from previous times is he's now going and ransacking each City's temple. So now he has the capacity to people build an empire, okay? But by doing that, what happens is that the other city states recognise him as a threat, and so they invite mercenaries place called Akkad to come and help them, okay? And this leads us to the first world empire called the Akkadian Empire, named by Sargon of Akkad. Now, his name is interesting. His name means legitimate ruler, which probably tells us he's not a legitimate ruler. He's probably a mercenary like David who stole the throne. Okay? He saw an opportunity and he stole the throne. But this is a pattern in history where if there's if there's competition among different city states, the competition is not resolved amongst themselves because of an equilibrium. So what happens is that an outsider, a mercenary, usually comes in who doesn't respect the rules, and he's able to unite everyone, okay, through innovations. So this is why the Qing Dynasty and not the Zhao or the Chu or the way Weibo unite of China. Because Qing Dynasty was committed to total warfare. They didn't care about your rules. They wanted to win. Okay, all right. So as you can see, the Canadian Empire stretches throughout the Fertile Crescent, okay, conquers Mesopotamia monarch Iraq extends over to Anatolia and captures a lot of the Levant, okay, but this area, the Levant, is historically, the most strategic location in The world. Why? Because it gives you access to Egypt, Mesopotamia and Anatolia, historically, the three wealthiest parts of the world. So whoever controls the Levant is able to always threaten Egypt, okay, and for most of history this part the Levant was a Egyptian colony. But remember that after Bronze Age collapsed, Egypt was not was only able to project power in the Levant, and so the different empires fought for the Levant in order to threaten Egypt. Okay, so Jerusalem is literally the centre of the world. We'll see that throughout history, people have considered Jerusalem the centre of the world, both religious reasons, but also mainly for geopolitical and trade reasons. Okay. Now the other thing to remember about this area is that it's highly competitive because it's hard to protect Mesopotamia. Okay, it's very, very wealthy. But as you can see, there are these mountain tribes over here that can always threaten Mesopotamia. Okay, so this is a pattern history where whoever established an empire in Mesopotamia is always be threatened by the mountains, the regions. Oh, sorry, the Borderlands. Okay. This is a, this is a pattern throughout Mesopotamian history, and that's why these empires change all the time. Okay, so this is the Babylonian Empire. This gives us hamarabi. Okay, then you have the Assyrian Empire. The Assyrian Empire is famous for their brutality. They'll come if you rebel against them, they will kill everyone. Okay? They're notorious for their brutality. Now, remember, at this time in history, an empire is not the empire of today, where you can exert authority everywhere. An empire at this time is you're mainly controlling certain choke points of trade and everyone else just sort of like goes along because it benefits them. Okay, so an empire is more like a loose confederation, as opposed to a nation state, okay, so this is the Assyrian Empire,

Prof. Jiang  19:11  
and this is the Neo Babylonian Empire, okay, so you have these empires that constantly change over time. Tishy changes when a man and merchant, Cyrus the Great. Okay, Cyrus the Great is the founder of something called the Persian academic empire. So last class, we discussed Zoroastrianism, and Zoroastrian astronautism is really the first great world religion, because it provides a simple but powerful model of how the world works, and utter azinism is powerful because it encourages everyone to be their best right to seek Asha. Now, for most people, what Asha means is, Don't ever lie and. Okay? And it's actually a really useful thing if you're trying to run an empire, because when you're an empire, you need soldiers, you need generals, you need administrators, right? And if people don't lie, if people are honest and moral, well you can expand really quickly, right? And so that's what Cyrus the Great did? Cyrus the Great is also known for his mercy and his generosity. So when he conquers a place, what he will do he was identify the best people, meaning the king himself, and make them advisors to his regime. Okay, he's known for his tolerance. He's only he's he's known for his openness. And so what happens is that the Babylon Empire basically surrendered to Him. We want to fight why? Because of elite overproduction, right? You have this war going on between the upper nobility and the lower nobility, and they're like, You know what? Let's invite Cyrus the Great, and then we don't have to fight each other anymore, okay? And that's how Cyrus the Great was able to build the first world empire. Okay. This is Babylon the fall. Babylon and Cyrus the Great. They're different stories, but one story is that they basically invited him in order to resolve their inner conflicts with each other, okay. This is a tomb of Cyrus the Great. It's still in Iran today. There's a story that when Azmain the great, you know, who is Macedonian, when he went to conquer the Persian Empire, he discovered that the Cyrus the Great, his tomb, was in bad repair. They didn't really maintain or keep it, so he ordered for it to be properly maintained. Okay? That's probably the story is, by the way, probably false, but it shows you that at this time in history, about the year 300 400 everyone 304 100. BCE, everyone was respectful of cyber grade, okay, Cyrus, regret is considered the world's greatest king or emperor. Okay. So, as you can see, the Agamemnon Empire is huge, okay, it encompasses most of West Asia, okay, so it goes from Iran all the way to Mesopotamia to Anatolia to parts of Greece and all, basically all of Egypt and Libya. Okay, it's a huge area, and they were able to do this because of their innovations in religion as well as administration. Okay, all right, so let me explain. How do you rule empires? Usually? Okay, well, the traditional way is you control trade routes and access Okay, so people have to pay you a tax to go through your trade routes. That's a traditional way. You can also use fear and conquest, and that's what the Assyrians were known for. They would come and kill everyone if you disobey them, you took hostages, hostages. That's a very common thing where you conquer people. You take the children of the king as hostages, okay? Intermarriage, religion. But what the person did really well that allow for the Persian Empire to be so huge as well as to be really well managed, are forfeits. Okay? Effective administration. Again. We have a religion, Zoroastrianism, where people can't lie. That's really good, because these bureaucrats will now report real facts to the Emperor, and that allows him to make better decisions. Okay, elite competition, meritocracy. And the idea here is that if you have a very effective administration that allows for local elites to focus your energies on trying to join this administration, as opposed to rebelling against you, communication networks, okay, so things like roads, things like postal networks, okay, so the Persians create the first global postage system, and it was really effective where you Want to send mail from Egypt over to Mesopotamia. What would happen is you have these Royal Roads where people would ride on horses, and they could stop at a basically a hostile rest, and then keep on going. Okay? And that way you can, you can very quickly move information from one court of empire to the other. And the last is to divide and rule. Divide and rule is really important. So what they did was they basically had different power centres within a within a region. Okay? So you have the SAT traps, which were local governors, but then you also have the local you also have the bureaucrats, okay, you also had the world representatives. So these are different factions within a region. Okay, so divine rule is probably the most effective way to control an empire. Okay, so now let's move on to Israel. Okay, we know. We now know about the Persian Empire, how they manage their system and why they are so effective. Okay, now let's talk about you. Israel. So remember that we read the Bible. And the Bible came about because David needed to justify, legitimise his rule. And after Bronte collapsed, David created a Davidic kingdom in the Levant because Egypt, Anatolia, Mesopotamia, were preoccupied, right? But because a lot is so important, this divided kingdom doesn't really last that long. It lasts like 8200, years, okay, after Solomon, David's son dies, Israel is divided into two parts, the northern kingdom, which gets conquered by Assyria, as well as Judah, okay, Jerusalem, where, which tries to maintain the little kingdom, but doesn't last very long. At this time in history, the Israelites are being pulled in different directions, okay, the Anatolians, the Assyrians, the Babylonians, the Egyptians, because they are strategically very important. And so what's really hard for these empires is, how do we maintain control over Jerusalem? Okay? And they try different techniques. They try burning down their city centres. Okay, so the northern kingdom was destroyed. You might have heard of the 10 Lost Tribes of Israel. They tried taking hostages, okay, but because this region is so volatile, nothing really works. And so the Jerusalem, the Israelites, come rebelling.

Prof. Jiang  26:33  
So this is the kingdom of Judah. And what happens is, for the longest time, the Babylonians are trying to deal with the Israelites. Okay? So they take hostages, okay? They take hostages, like 1000 of them, and move them to Babylon where they become scribes, where they become farmers, where they become merchants, okay, but again, the region is so strategically important that Jerusalem, basically, they switch loyalties all the time. Eventually, the Babylonians are so pissed off that they decide to burn down their temple. Okay? And so at this point in history, the Israelites are now gone. Does that make sense? The Israelites are gone now, 587, to six, we don't know when, but Babylonians destroy Jerusalem because they cannot. They tried many techniques to try to control Jerusalem. They can't do it. The Israelites are too rebellious, but it's too strictly important, so they destroy it. So they decide you want to screw this, we'll just destroy the city. Okay, so when this happens, okay, that's really important to understand. The Israelites are the Israelites are gone. Okay, the people are still around. The identity of the Israelites are now gone. 539 Cyrus the Great conquers Babylon, okay? And he says, I want the Israelites to return to Jerusalem. It's called the Edict of Cyrus, all right? And this is celebrated in the Bible. What is controversial is, why would he do such a thing? Okay? Because, again, Israelites are now gone. Israelites who got who went to Babylonia. They may still keep their religion a bit, but they no longer have their land. They don't ever there. They have changes of people. Okay? So it's an Israelite you pray in the temple, but the temples are destroyed, so now you pray in a synagogue. Okay, so the people have changed a great deal. So the question now is, why would Cyrus the Great go to Babylon? Said, You know what, I want you Israelites to return to Jerusalem. I want you to reconstitute the nation of Israel. Why would he do that? Okay, so this, this is a going to be a debate that will never, ever end. Okay? So the Bible tells us that Cyrus the Great did this because God told me to do that. Very, really simple. God says, I love my people, the Israelites, send them home. Okay, Cyrus grace, yes, of course, you're the great God. I'll do so, okay, guys, that's how it happens. Okay, all right, so there are different explanations. Maybe the idea is that Cyrus wants to show all the Persian Empire. I'm religiously tolerant. You can practice your religion. You can celebrate your religion. That's what the Persian Empire is, an open, tolerant, generous empire, okay, that's true. What's also true is that Cyrus found himself as a righteous and merciful king who wanted to be generous to everyone, okay? So he saw the Israelites want a home. He says, Well, can go home, okay? He it's also possible that there's a faction within the Israelites who supported his Babylon takeover. Okay, I don't know if this is true. It's probably not true, but we consider that, consider that as a possibility that the Israelites in Babylon supported his takeover, and so to thank them, Cyrus said, Fine, I'll keep. You back Jerusalem. Another possibility is that when Cyrus the Great conquered Babylon, he discovered that, you know what, these Israelites are really good administrators. And this is true about history, because remember, the Israelites had their Bible, and the religion requires them to study the Bible. And as we discussed, the Bible is one of debate, openness, asking questions, and so these are very literate intellectuals, and they rise up very high in the Babylon administration. But this is too far history where, where Jewish people will rise very high in all empires, including, including the Islamic empire, including the American empire, okay, I think the best reason for happening is divided in rule. Okay. So the idea is that you need to control the Levant, because a lot levant gives you access to Egypt, which is historically the wealthiest part of the world, okay, whoever controls Egypt, controls the world. So what you do is you set up a group of people in the Levant that are only loyal to you. Okay. Does that make sense? Okay. You set up people in the Levant that only exist because you the Empire allow them to exist. If you the Empire did not support them, the locals, the everyone in that region would would get rid of them right away, okay, and that's why we have the Jews. So the Jews were invented by the Persians to control the Levant. The Jews is actually a Persian term, okay? So before the Jews were, of course, the Israelites. Now we have the Jews. All right, so this is Jerusalem, and as you can see, what's really important to understand is that this is actually only a really small part of the Levant, but this part is specifically for the Jews, and it's part of this Persian province called beyond the river, and they call it the province of yahu. That's why we have the term Jews, okay, because they are part of the province of Yahoo. And what's really important understand is they're surrounded by enemies. The Sumerians are Israelites who have stayed in the Levant. Okay. Do you understand so most people around them are, in fact, Israelites who adapted to local circumstances, and that means that they practice different religions. That also means that they married foreign women as well, but they still consume us as Israelites. Okay, does that make sense? Guys? So what? But what happens is that these exiles in Babylon, they come back and they say, No, we're the true issue, like you guys are the false Israelites. The reason why we're true is we have stayed loyal to our religion. Okay, so what's gonna happen over the next few decades? It's almost a civil war between Israelites who've stayed and Israelites who left but come back, all right, and this is what the Persian Empire wants in order to maintain stability in the Levant, right? Because you have this small minority of exiles from a lot who've come back and during conflict with everyone else. All right, this is divine rule, okay, so, um, could you sorry, let me Okay, okay, okay, so could you help me read the Bible? Okay, okay, all right, so we're going to read two books of the Bible. They're called Israel and Nehemiah, okay? And these two books are really important, and then I will discuss that often by scholars. But Ezra Nemea shows us how Persia helped the Jews to reconstitute their nation the process. And by studying these two books, it will give us insight into how current people in the nation of Israel think, and then we can analyse how they will behave moving forward. Okay, all right, so, so can you read this? This? This is the beginning of the book of

Speaker 1  34:20  
Ezra, okay, in the first year of King Cyrus of Persia, in order that the world of the Lord by the mouth of Jeremiah, might be accomplished, the Lord stirred up the spirit of King Cyrus of Persia, so that he sent a herald throughout all his kingdom and also in a written edict declared, okay, so this is really important

Prof. Jiang  34:39  
for us to Understand, okay. Quote the Bible, Cyrus is doing this because God told me to do this. Okay? Not because of imperial ambitions or imperial strategy. It's just God told him to do this.

Speaker 1  34:50  
Okay, Thus says King Cyrus of Persia, the Lord the God of heaven, has given me all the kingdoms of the earth, and He has charged me to build him a house at. Jerusalem in Judah. Any of those among you who are of his people, may their god be with them. Are now be, are now permitted to go up to Jerusalem in Judah and rebuild the house of the LORD the God of Israel. He is the God who is in Jerusalem. And let all survivors in whatever place they reside, be assisted by the people of their place with silver and gold, with goods and with animals, besides Free Will offsprings for the house of God in Jerusalem.

Prof. Jiang  35:29  
So Cyrus the Great is considered the Messiah by the Jews. The Jews are extremely thankful for Cyrus, because not only does he allow them to go back to Jerusalem, but he also finances the rebuilding of the temple, okay? But when this happens, when they go back and try to rebuild temple, the locals get pissed off. Okay? Because, like, Who are you people? You're studying our religion, like, like, like, what's going on here, okay, and this creates a lot of conflict. That's good for the Persian Empire, because they want this conflict right as part of their divide and rule strategy, okay, all right,

Speaker 1  36:14  
when the builders laid the foundation of the temple of the Lord, the priests in their vestments were stationed to praise the Lord with trumpets. And the Levites, the son of

Prof. Jiang  36:26  
the Levites, are important. Levites are actually the priest class of the Israelites.

Speaker 1  36:30  
Okay, the sons of as Asaph with symbols, according to the direction of King David of Israel, and they sang responsibly, praising and giving thanks to the Lord, for He is good, for his steadfast love endures forever towards Israel and all the people responded with a great shout when they praised the Lord, because the foundation of the house of the Lord was laid. But many of the priests and Levites and heads of families, old people who had seen the first house on its foundations, wept with a loud voice when they saw this house, though many shouted aloud for joy, so that the people could not distinguish the sound of the joyful shout from the sound of the people sweeping for the people shouted so loudly that the sound was heard far away.

Prof. Jiang  37:17  
This is the happiest moment in Jewish history when they rebuild the temple, okay, what they call a second temple. And this is important because the Second Temple was destroyed, and what they want to do now in Israel is build a Third Temple. And this is important because the Third Temple sits on the Al Azmain Mosque, which is a third holiest site in the southern world. So what this Bible is telling us that eventually the Israelis will destroy the Isaac mosque so that they can build the Third Temple, what they call the Temple of Solomon. Okay, all right, can you? Can you continue from when? Yeah, when the adversaries,

Speaker 1  37:59  
when the adversaries of Judah and Benjamin heard that the returned exiles were building a temple to the Lord the God of Israel. They approached Zerubbabel and the heads of families and said to them, let us build with you, for we worship your gods as you do.

Prof. Jiang  38:15  
So they say we're Israelites, just as you guys okay, we stayed, but you guys left, so actually we're better than you are, okay, because we stayed. Where else you left? Okay. Keep on going.

Speaker 1  38:24  
And we have been sacrificing to him ever since the days of King Azar Haddon of Assyria, Assyria, who brought us here. But Zerubbabel, Jerusalem, Josh Joshua, and the rest of the heads of families in Israel said to them, You shall have no part with us in building a house to our God, but we alone will build to the Lord the God of Israel, as King Cyrus of Persia had commanded us.

Prof. Jiang  38:51  
This is really weird, right? You're all you're all Israelites. Why? Why is it that? No, we are the two Israelites. You guys are, you guys are the false Israelites, and so you can't help us. Okay, why is there this conflict going on? Right? That's strange. And so the only way to understand this is the conflict is part of the Imperial strategy. Okay, dividing rule.

Speaker 1  39:15  
Keep on going. Then the people of the land discouraged the people of Judah and made them afraid to build, and they bribed officials to frustrate the plan throughout the reign of King Cyrus of Persia and until the reign of King Darius of Persia.

Prof. Jiang  39:30  
Okay, so they try to build the temple, but doesn't really work out, because there's so much opposition, right? The the Jews who come back from Babylon, it's like we're the real Israelites, so only we can touch the temple, no one else can participate. And the other is like, this is not, this is this is wrong. We should all participate in the building of the temple. This is, this is one religion, okay? So it seems as though these Jews. Babylon. They're actually Imperial agents who are trying to show discontent within the region. Okay, sorry, this bit long, okay, but can you try to read, okay,

Speaker 1  40:13  
this is a copy of the letter that King. And can you help

Prof. Jiang  40:16  
me with Arto sexes, okay, artisans, artisexes. Is this great warrior in person. Okay? Great warrior. Keep on going.

Speaker 1  40:23  
Gave to the priest Ezra, the scribe, a scholar of the text of the commandments of the Lord and His status for Israel.

Prof. Jiang  40:32  
Okay, so Ezra is one of these Israelites who was, who comes from a family that was exiled to Babylon, but he's a priest and he's an intellectual, so he is considered, actually the crate of the Bible that we have today.

Speaker 1  40:45  
Keep on going. Art of sexes, King of Kings, to the priest Zerah, the scribe of the law, of the God of heaven, peace. And now I decree that any of the people of Israel, of their priests, or Levites in my kingdom, who freely offers to go to Jerusalem may go with you, for you are you are sent by the king and his seven counsellors to make inquiries about Judah and Jerusalem according to the law of your God, which is in your hand, and also to convey the silver and Gold that the king and his counsellors have freely offered to the God of Israel, who whose dwelling is in Jerusalem, with all the silver and gold that you shall find in the whole province of Babylonia, and with the Free Will offerings of the people and the priests given willingly to the house of their god in Jerusalem, with this money, then you shall, with all diligence, buy bulls, rams and lambs and their grain offering and Their drink offerings, and you shall offer them on the altar of the house of your God in Jerusalem. Okay, stop. Okay.

Prof. Jiang  41:54  
This is really important. Okay. This is a letter by King artisans authorising Ezra to build the Second Temple. Okay? Why is this important? Because this is called the Balfour Declaration, 1917 what's going to happen is that the British government Lord Balfour, he writes to Lord Rothschild, who is a Jewish Finance and he says, we actually just read this? Okay, okay,

Speaker 1  42:23  
I have much pleasure in conveying to you, on behalf of His Majesty's government, the following declaration of sympathy with Jewish Zionist aspirations, which has been submitted to and approved by the cabinet. His Majesty's government view with favour the establishment in Palestine of a national home for the Jewish people, and will use their best endeavours to facilitate the achievement of this object, it being clearly understood that nothing shall be done which may prejudice the civil and religious rights of existing non Jewish communities in Palestine, or the rights and political status enjoyed by Jews in any other country, I should be grateful if you would bring this declaration to the knowledge of the Zionist Federation.

Prof. Jiang  43:09  
Okay, this is almost like the artist xx declaration, right? You see how, in the Bible, artist xx writes a letter to Azmain says, Hey, I authorised you to go back to Jerusalem and build the Second Temple, right? So what's happening is that they're using the Bible as a script in order to facilitate their geopolitical ambitions. Okay? This is why reading the Bible is important. Because once you read the Bible, understand the Bible. You compare it to historical development. You're able to see the connections, and you're able to see connections, you can also see predict how they will develop over time. Okay, so this battle of declaration creates the current nation of Israel, which was found in 1948 so like before, the nation of Israel was created by the British as part of their geopolitical strategy of divine conquering the Middle East, and we'll discuss this later on. Okay, but it's really important for you guys to keep in mind as we move forward. All right, can you read the highlighted part? Okay, okay.

Speaker 1  44:15  
Oh my god. I'm too ashamed and embarrassed to lift my face to my God for our iniquities have risen higher than

Prof. Jiang  44:25  
our heads. So this is a speech by Ezra. Okay, he returns to Jerusalem, and now he has to reflect on on what God wants. Okay, so he's discussed why God exiled in Babylon, why God has allowed him return, and what God wants me to do? Okay, keep on going,

Speaker 1  44:42  
and our guilt has mounted up to the heavens. From the days of our ancestors to this day, we have been deep in guilt and for iniquities. We our kings and our priests have been handed over to the kings of the lands, to the sword, to captivity, to plunder. Suffering and to utter shame as it now the case.

Prof. Jiang  45:03  
So why did the Israelites get exiled to Babylon because they refused to obey and worship Yahweh? Yahweh sent prophets. Yahweh warned them, but they kept on worshipping false gods. They kept on sinning. And so Yahweh is like, you know what? I really need to teach these guys a lesson, and that's why they exiled him. They exiled them to Babylon so they can reflect and learn and grow as a people. Okay, come on going.

Speaker 1  45:34  
But now for a brief moment, favour has been shown by the Lord of Lord our God, who has left us a remnant and given us a stake in his holy place, in order that he may brighten our eyes and grant us a little sustenance, sustenance in our slavery, for we are slaves, yet our God has not forsaken us in our slavery, but has extended to us His steadfast love before the kings of Persia to give us new life, to Set up the house of our God, to repair its ruins and to give us a wall in Judah, in Jerusalem and in Jerusalem. Okay, so

Prof. Jiang  46:11  
Ezra is saying, okay, yeah, we screwed up, but God is forgiving, and now we have a second chance to prove ourselves to God. How do we prove ourselves to God by making sure that we only worship him, okay? So this beginning of Jewish monotheism, okay, which was heavily influenced by Zoroastrianism. So in other words, the religion that the Jews will practice from now on is not the religion of the Israelites, which is polyphenic. They will now practice a new religion that's heavily influenced by Zoroastrianism, okay, which is the Persian religion? Come on going,

Speaker 1  46:49  
and now our God, what shall we say after this? For we have forsaken Your commandments, which you are commanded by your servants, the Prophet saying, the land that you are entering to possess is a land unclean with the pollutions of the people of the lands, with their abominations they have, they have filled it from end to end with their uncleanness. So this

Prof. Jiang  47:13  
is really important idea to understand. What Azure is saying is this, these Israelites who've stayed are traitors. They are now unclean. Why? Because now they worship foreign gods. They're popeistic, and as a result, we have to clean the land. Okay? This is a fanatical understanding of Judaism. Okay, keep

Speaker 1  47:36  
on going. Therefore do not give your daughters to their sons, neither take their daughters from your sons and never seek their peace or propriety, so that you may be strong and eat the good of the land and leave it for an inheritance to your children forever after all that has come upon us for our evil deeds and For our great guilt, seeing that you, our God, have punished us less than our inequities deserved and have given us such a remnant at this Shall we break your commandment again and intermarry with the people who practice these abominations? Would you not be angry with us until you destroy us with without remnant or survivor. O Lord, God of Israel, you are just, but we have escaped as a remnant, as is now the case. Here we are before you in our guilt, though, no one can face you because of this.

Prof. Jiang  48:32  
Okay, so now God's forgiven us. We've returned to Jerusalem. We can't screw this up again. Okay? And how do we prove our loyalty to God by making sure that we are peer. Okay? We're not going to marry other religions. We're not going to marry other people. We're usually married within ourselves. So Herodotus, in his histories, when he talks about the Jewish people, okay, he says the Jewish people are known for two things. The first thing they're known for is giving us a bath on Saturday. So they don't work. They don't work on Saturday because that's their law. The second thing that they're known for, really known for is he'll marry outside their religion. Jewish women will not refuse to marry four men. Okay, and so now we have a concept of blood purity that is new. So remember, it's really important for us to understand. But the Jews and Israelites are not the same people, okay? In fact, what Ezra is doing is rejecting visualised heritage and establishing a new heritage based on blood purity and a monophistic devotion to Yahweh. And this is new, okay, that's why I keep on saying this. The Jews of Persia are not the same as the Israelites of David. All right. So as you can see from this map, the Jews are in this area, and it's a very small part of the Levant, but it. A part of the Levant that's completely loyal to Persia, okay? Because they see everyone else as unclean as the enemy. And if you're an empire, how many Jews around are really good for you, right? All right? And so the Jews are an invention of the Persians. But guess what? The nation of Israel is also the invention of the British Empire, and we'll discuss this later on. All right, so we move on to the second book called Nehemiah. So Ezra is the priest who will create the Bible. Nehemiah is the governor sent by the Persians to re establish the Jewish nation. Okay, so, okay, can you highlight it apart?

Speaker 1  50:53  
At the time I was cupbearer to the king,

Prof. Jiang  50:56  
cupbearer to the king is like a really powerful position, right? Because you can poison the king. So the king loves you. The king sees you as as someone who is very competent, and you could possibly be, one day, be Prime Minister or the First Minister. Okay, keep

Speaker 1  51:15  
on going. In the month of Nissan, in the 12/20, 20th year of King Arthur. Artis Xs, artist Xs, my bad when wine has when wine was served him, I carried the wine and gave it to the king. Now, I had never been sad in this presence before. So the king said to me, Why is your face sad? Since you are not sick, not sick, this can only be sadness of the heart. Then I was very much afraid. I said to the king, May the king live forever. Why should my face not be sad when the city, the place of my ancestors, graves lies waste and its gate have been destroyed by fire? Then the king said to me, what do you request? So I prayed to the God of heaven. Then I said to the king, if it pleases the king and your servant has found favour with you, I ask that you send me to Judah, to the city of my ancestors graves, so that I may rebuild it. The king said to me, the Queen also was sitting beside him. How long will you be gone, and when will you return? So it pleased the king to send me, and I set him a date. Then I said to the king, if I pleases the king, let letters be given to given me to the governors of the province beyond the river that they may grant me passage until I arrived in Judah and a letter to Asaph, the keeper of the king's forest, directing him to give me timber to make beams for the gates of the temple fortress and for the wall of the city and for the house that I shall occupy. And the king granted me what I asked for the gracious hand of my God was upon me.

Prof. Jiang  52:57  
Okay, so the Bible says that Nehemiah one day, feels tremendous regret that the city of his ancestors is not has not been rebuilt, okay, and he begs the king for permission to go back, guys. This is not how empires work, okay. This is not how empires work. You do not ask the king or the Emperor for anything you can say, well, just cut your head off. Okay? How empires work is that you have to read the king's intentions, right? You have to figure out what does he really want, and then you have to say, Please, please, I want to do this, not because you asked me to do this, but because I want to do this myself. Okay, and I will work hard to achieve this ambition. That's how empires work, all right, the king does not tell you what he wants. To guess what he wants, and you can guess what he wants, then you get promoted. You can guess what he wants, then you get then you get your head cut off, right? That's how empires work. This is important, because when we move on to the nation of Israel, most people believe that the nation of Israel started with the Zionist movement, which came with the writing of a book called Judah land, fatherland, written by this German Jewish journalist called Theodor Herzl. And so people say Zionism started 100 years ago. Guys, when we do the next state of Israel, we will discover that it's actually part of the British imperial policy, okay, but the British themselves cannot be seen as the one, as the ones who are promoting the creation of the State of Israel, because it makes them look bad, okay? Because, because everyone else would be like, Why are you doing this? So what they have to do is create a situation which the Jews themselves are trying to want to create their own nation. The problem, though, is this is really important. We'll discuss this later. Is that 100 years ago, guess what, Jews did not want to go to Jerusalem because they were happy where they were okay. There were a lot of Jews who were. Really happy in Babylon. They were sent back in order to create this, to create this province, Judah, and to create all this conflict with with the locals. Okay, that's how empires work. Okay, all right, so when Nehemiah goes back, what he's gonna do is he's gonna build the tempo. He built the walls piss everyone off, right? Because, like, why would you do that? We're all living happily together. We're all big, one, big family, and now you're building these walls, which means that you're better than us, or you are you're afraid of us, or you want to conquer us? Okay, so this question all those conflicts with the locals, which is, again, what the Persian Empire wants to happen. This is how empires work. All right, okay, can you can you read?

Speaker 1  55:54  
Now, there was a great outcry of the people and of their wives against their Jewish kin. For there were those who said, with our sons and our daughters, we are many, we must get grain so that we may eat and stay alive. There were also those who said we are having to pledge our fields, our vineyards and our houses in order to get grain during the famine. And there are those who said we are having to borrow money on our fields and vineyards to pay the king's tax. Now our flesh is the same as that of our kindred. Our children are the same as their children, and yet we are forcing our sons and daughters to be slaves, and some of our daughters have been ravished. We are powerless, and our fields and vineyards now belong to others.

Prof. Jiang  56:38  
So what's happening is that Myanmar has gone back to create this new province of Jews. What he's discovering is that there's massive corruption inequality among these Jews, and this is a problem because they're a minority in a very hostile region right keep on going.

Speaker 1  56:57  
I was very angry when I heard their outcry and these complaints. After thinking it over, I brought charges against the nobles, the nobles and the officials. I said to them, you are all taking interests from your own people. And I called a great embassy to deal assembly, to deal with them, and said to them, as far as we were able, we have brought back our Jewish Kindred, who had been sold to other nations, but now you are selling your own kin, who must then be brought back by us. They were silent and could not find a word to say so. I said, the thing you the thing that you are doing, is not good. Should you not? Should you not walk in the fear of our God to prevent the taunts of the nations are enemies. Moreover I, moreover, I and my brothers and my servants are lending them money and grain. Let us stop this taking of interest. Restore to them this very day, their fields, their vineyards, their olive for orchards and their houses and their interests on money, grain, wine and oil that you have been exact, exacting from them. Then they said, We will restore everything and demand nothing more from them. We will do as you say. And I called the priests and made them take an oath to do as they had promised. I also shook out the folds of My garment and said, so many God shakes out everyone from house and from property who does not perform this promise. Thus may they be shaken out and emptied. And all the assembly said, Amen and praise the Lord and the people did as they had promised.

Prof. Jiang  58:34  
So this is a really important aspect of the Jews, that people don't really understand how unified they are. Okay? An example is that if you're a Jewish person, you can always get an interest free interest free loan you want to buy a house or start a business. Okay, that's pretty amazing, right? If we want to buy a house or want to start a business, we go to bank, they're like, Okay, we're gonna charge you 10% interest, and maybe you can't afford that, right? But if you're a Jewish person, doesn't matter how poor you are, there will always be Jewish organisations that can offer you interest free loans you want to start a business, or if you want to buy a house, you want to do anything, because Jews are not allowed to have interest from each other. That's how unified they are as a people. Okay, okay, so just read the talk and highlight it, and that's it. Okay, okay,

Speaker 1  59:35  
when the seventh month came, the people of Israel being settled in their own in their towns, all the people gathered together into the square before the water gate. They told the scribe, Ezra to bring the Book of the Law of Moses, which the Lord had had given to Israel. Accordingly, the priest Ezra brought the law before the assembly, both men and women and all who could hear, hear. With understanding. This was on the first day of the seventh month. He read from it, facing the square before the water gate, from early morning until midday, in the presence, in the presence of the men and women and those who could understand and the ears of all of all the people were were attentive to the Book of the Law,

Prof. Jiang  1:00:22  
okay, so this is the last step of creating the Jewish identity. Okay, so the idea of the Jewish identity is that they follow the laws of God. They do not marry outside their religion, they don't charge each other interest, they don't exploit each other, okay, and the last thing is this. The last thing is that their historical memory is the Bible. Okay, who are we as Jewish people? What are our memories? It's whatever is written in the Bible. Okay, so Ezra is taking all these historical documents, and he's combined together in what today we call the Bible. And this is, this makes the Jewish people extremely resilient, because no matter where they are, no matter how low the publishing, how low the publishing goes, their memory, their historical identity, is always stored in one Bible that makes them the world's most resilient, flexible and open people. Okay? So this begins the Bible.

Speaker 1  1:01:29  
Okay, keep on going in those days I saw in Judah people treating Wine. Wine presses on the Sabbath. And Sabbath is a Saturday, the day of rest. Okay? And bringing in heaps of grain and loading them on donkeys, and also wine grapes, figs and all kinds of burdens, which they brought into Jerusalem on the Sabbath day. And I warned them at the time against selling food. Tyrions, Tyrians, also, who lived in the city, brought in fish and all kinds of merchandise and sold them on the Sabbath to the people of Judah and in Jerusalem, then I remonstrated with the nobles of Judah and said to them, what is this evil thing that you are doing profaning the Sabbath day? Did not your ancestors act in this way, and did not our God bring all this disaster on us and on the city, yet you bring more worth on Israel by profaning the Sabbath. In those days, also, I saw Jews who had married women of Ashdod, Amon and Moab, and half of their children spoke the language of ashod, and they could not speak the language of Judah, but spoke the language of various people, and I contended with them and cursed them and beat some of them and pulled out their hair, and I made them take an oath in the name of God, saying, You shall not give your daughters to their sons, or take their daughters from your sons, or for yourselves. Did not King Solomon of Israel sin on account of such women among the many nations there were there was no king like him, and he was beloved by his God, and God made him king over all Israel. Nevertheless, foreign women made even him to sin. Shall we then listen to you and do all this great evil and act treacherously against our God by marrying foreign women?

Prof. Jiang  1:03:18  
Okay, so Nehemiah enforces two major laws. The first law is that you shall not work under Sabbat, because that is God's rest day. Okay. Second major law is that if you marry a foreign woman, you must divorce her. He's bringing up families. Why? Because he believes that religious purity requires blood. Purity. If you marry a foreign woman, she's she's gonna make you believe in their foreign god. Remember, it is by worshipping false idols. It's because of this that Yahweh decided to punish the Jews. Okay, so the Jews must only worship Yahweh. All right, so this is their interpretation of monotheism. So as you can see, there are certain traditions about the Jews that was created during the Persian Empire in order to facilitate Persian control with a lot but these traditions, because they were encoded in the Bible, they stay with us even today. But not only that, but by reading the Bible carefully and understand how to connect the Bible to historical development, you can now figure out how Israel will develop over the next 1020, years. Okay, and these are my sorry. So these are my three predictions. First of all, they're gonna rebuild the Temple of Solomon. Okay, they're gonna build the Third Temple by destroying the Alexa mosque. They're gonna do that sooner or later. Okay, that's the first thing they're gonna do. And you know why? Because when we read the Bible, you see how how happy they were, okay? Because they felt complete. Deleted. They felt as though God is with us. God has forgiven us. God loves us. Okay, so building the Third Temple is crucial to the identity of Israel today. Okay, so they're going to do this, and it's going to cause a lot of problems, because, again, the Azmain Mosque is the third holiest site in the Islamic world, and it's gonna create a lot of conflict between Israel and the Islamic world. Okay. Do they care? Not really. Okay. Number two, you can see how when the Jews returned, they were convinced that they were forced out Jerusalem because they offended God. Okay. So in other words, if Jews want to maintain control over Israel, they need to obey the laws of God, which means that they become a theocracy. Okay? Now, now I'm not sure if you've been to Israel, I've been to Israel, and if you go to places like Tel Aviv, it's a very open, liberal, Cosmopolitan, forward looking place, okay? I think that Tel Aviv has one of the world's highest concentrations of gays in the world. Okay, guess what? That's gonna that's gone, okay? As Israel develops over time, it's become more and more of a theocracy where the Bible is the law, okay? And the third thing is that we can expect that as the past past Judaica expands, more and more Jews will return to Israel. Look, the reality is this, if you look at the Middle East, Israel is the greatest power in the Middle East. There's no force in the Middle East that can prevent Israel from expanding and expanding creating the past Judaica, which is their ambition. Okay? So this is just an introduction, but the thing I want you guys to remember is that, first of all, the Jewish identity, it is fluid, it's flexible, it's open. It was created by Empire for the purpose of maintaining empire. Okay, and we're gonna see this throughout history as well. All right, so, um, is was this clear? You guys? Are there any questions about today?

Speaker 1  1:07:10  
Okay, yeah. So how does the the Persian state control, like Persian control of uh, of Jerusalem transferred to modern day society. Like, how does it still work? Because I think we're seeing like, a trend that is Israel's going kind of more back to to like, depending on the Bible and everything. So how does it like transfer to modern day society and all the conflicts that's happening?

Prof. Jiang  1:07:44  
Okay? So Persia wanted to divide and conquer the Levant. Okay, they're afraid that if, what if the law becomes too stable, the lot might settle with Egypt or another power, and they lose control of the Levant, which directly impacts your capacity to trade and control the world. Okay, so the way you control the Levant is you create this entity that is conflict with everyone else. And now what happens is that both this entity, Jerusalem, and the its enemies rely on you, Persia, to match a conflict, okay? And this what's happening today in Israel, because who's the Empire? America's the Empire, right? Israel has all these conflicts with nations in the Middle East, right? They have conflicts with Turkey, that conflicts with Egypt. They have conflicts with the Gulf nations. They have conflicts with basically everyone. Okay, so who does everyone require? Need to manage this conflict? America, right? Saudi Arabia, Israel, Turkey, Egypt. They all require the United States to come in and say, Hey guys, let's just get along. We're just one big family, okay, this is all intentional in order for America to maintain dominance over the Middle East. Who's very unhappy about this? Which nation is very unhappy about this? Israel, okay, right. Israel's gonna piss about this. So we can expect that over time it's gonna happen is a major, major conflict between America and Israel. There's gonna be a divorce, basically. And my argument to you is that Israel will win this conflict, and as a result, Israel become the dominant power in the Middle East, because the Jews know their own history. The Jews read the Bible every day. They know what the Persians, did they know the British? Did they know the Americans are doing today? They don't like they don't. They don't want this. They don't. They don't become a servant, a slave to Empire. They are servant and slave to their God, but they don't become a servant slave to the Empire. So they need to get rid of the empire and establish the sovereignty, okay? And that's why there's so much conflict. In the Middle East today, because Israel needs to figure out how to get rid of the American empire so that it can be independent and fully achieve their sovereignty. Okay. Does that make sense? Yeah.

Speaker 2  1:10:15  
I think one question I have is about like, think currently did Jews stop attacking Palestinians guys?

Prof. Jiang  1:10:25  
Okay, this is really important. Okay, don't say the Jews. Okay, there are different groups. There's the Israelites. The Israelites are the time of King David. They're gone. Okay, let's forget the Israelites. There are the Jews. And the Jews are people who practice Judaism, okay? And they're the Israelis. Israelis are citizens of the nation of Israel. It's the Israelis that are doing this, not the Jews. There's a difference, okay, that these are Jews are spread out throughout the world, okay? We'll call the Jewish Diaspora. And there are a lot of Jews in the world who oppose the nation of Israel, because, well, what nation is doing they believe goes against the will of God. Okay, so Israelis not Jews,

Speaker 2  1:11:06  
okay, okay, so the Israelis is, I think, like the news just disappears about how Israelis attacks Palestine. It's just because previously it was like on those hot searches, but recently, we can just it's just gone. The news

Prof. Jiang  1:11:28  
is okay. Look, the reality is that if you read the Bible, it's clear what's going to happen. Israel is going to clear the West Bank and Gaza of Palestinians to establish their theocratic state. Okay, they can't have Palestinians and Arabs around. It has to be completely Jewish, and these Palestinians can be moved elsewhere, to Jordan, to Egypt. They don't really care, okay, but, but this process, process will take time. Okay, all right. Any more questions? Guys, okay, great. So was this clear? The ideas in this class were clear. Okay, so next class, what we'll do is we will do the Greek Empire, okay, and then after that, we'll do the Roman Empire, and after that we will do Christianity. Okay, so we're going through history fairly quickly, but I want, I need you to keep these ideas in mind, because they will build on top of each other. Okay, all right. Okay, thank you.

