Prof. Jiang  0:00  
We've discussed transnational capital, the British Empire. We've also discussed the sabatine frankis. Today, we will put the two ideas together and show how the alliance between these two different forces have created modernity, or the ideas that underpin our society today, including Marxism, Darwinism, individualism, liberalism and Freudian psychology, all right, so we will talk a lot about Jews today, but just as a caveat, it's important for us remember that it's easy to see a Jewish conspiracy everywhere, but things actually much more complicated than that. The argument I want to make you to you today is that the Jews are construct and tool of empire. In other words, they're really the middle managers. They're the ones who helped manage the Empire. And if the Jews weren't around, then it would be the Indians or some other group. An empire needs scapegoats. It needs middle managers. And for the past 200 years, the Jews have served the purpose. So we also, I will show you today, is that the Empire, which is transnational capital, they get all the profit. They hide behind the scenes, they're the shadows, and they make all the money, and it's really the Jews get all the blame. And what we'll discuss next class is that there's same thing that will happen today, okay, so that's the argument I will make to you today. All right, so let's discuss the British Empire. The British Empire is unique in human history in that it controls the entire world. And it's just a small island, right? It's a small island with very little resources, and it's able to control the entire world because it controls global trade. It has the world critics, Navy and also. It also has a Bank of England, which is really transnational capital, and English becomes the lingua franca of the world, and has colonies about the world as well. So for the British Empire, the way they control the world, it's a very simple concept. As long as the British Empire is able to control the seaways, then it controls the world. The great crisis, the great problem, great threat, is that a Empire will emerge within the Eurasian continent. It's called the heartland, okay? And this could be Germany, it could be Russia, it could be China. But if it's able to merge eventually, like the Mongol, like the Mongol Empire, it's able to conquer the entire Eurasian climate, and through railways, it's able to link up Africa, the Middle East, Europe and Asia all together into one trading block, and then you don't need the seaways anymore. If that were to happen, then the British Empire would go bankrupt, because, remember the British Empire with the Bank of England, transnational capital, it's really a policy scheme. It needs to be able to keep on buying into the empire for it to continue to succeed. So the greatest threat is a great power emerges in the heartland and throughout history that was either the French, the Ottoman Empire, the Germans or the Russians. So the grand strategy of the British is to create as much chaos and conflict in Europe as much as possible. You always want your enemies find each other. And that's just the core strategy of the British, not very hard. Okay. So again, as we discussed, there are four major enemies that the British have faced throughout their history as an empire, the French. They able to defeat because of the French Revolution as well as the Napoleonic Wars, then they had to face the Russians, and the Russians were the greatest threat because the Russians had the largest land empire and they were the most likely to unify the Eurasian continent. They also faced the Ottomans, and they also faced the Germans. Now the British could not seem as though they were interfering in European politics, because that all that would do is anger the Europeans and unit the Europeans against the British. They had to do it using subtle foods, secretly, using intelligence operatives, right? And so, of course, what happened was that different strategies in order to divide and conquer Europe, what they would do is promote revolutionary movements using transnational capital, and we'll discuss these revolution movements later on. They also industrialized Japan because they saw Japan as an. Natural ally in in the world. Okay? So you know that in Japan, they underwent the Meiji Restoration, and in only a few decades, they were able to industrialize so much so that they defeated Russia in the Russia Japanese war in 1905 and you may not know this, but trestan capital, the British and Americans finance a great deal of Japan's industrialization, because annual American empire wanted Japan as an ally. It was a natural ally. What they would also do is establish resource colonies. So Australia, New Zealand, Canada, South Africa. These are all resource colonies. The idea is that you can now use manpower to fund your armies, okay? And the last strategy is to wherever you can steal as much resources as possible, as fast as you can. And this was true in India and China and Africa as well. Okay, so this is the grand strategy of the British, and they needed agents to help them in these endeavors, and the 17 frankers made the most sense, right? So the advantages that 17 frankers brought to the Jewish Empire were fourfold. The first is that they already had a diaspora, right? And so and they were also crypto Jews. They also discussed anything as Jews as well. So they were able, as a network, to conduct intelligence, do blackmail and subvert governments. Okay? They also had access to a lot of transactional capital. They themselves were actually wealthy. The last major advantage, and the most important, is that they had revolutionary cells and networks. Okay, so remember frankus, they believe that they were saving the world. They believed they had to destroy the world in order to save it. And these made perfect revolutionaries, and I'll show you this as we move on. Okay, now, last reason that we won't discuss much today, but we'll focus a lot on in our last class is idea of eschatology, where the rich empire, they are Christians, and they believe that they must use Jews as a pawn in order to force the return of Jesus. If this isn't that, we'll discuss a great deal next class. But I want, I want to focus on these three reasons. First, okay, all right, so, and it made sense for the British to align themselves with the 17 frankis, because the way they saw the world was the same as an empire, as transnational capital. Remember, you're focused on extracting as much energy as possible from your workers, so you're very materialistic. Well, the frankists were also very materialistic as well, right? They believed that the body was more important than the spirit. Second is that the both the frankist and the British, they wanted to obtain power through chaos, instability and regime change, and both were very focused on the pursuit of wealth and power. So these were natural allies, all right, so let's use an example of how the Ottoman Empire, sorry, let's use an example of how the British Empire worked, exactly in France, and the most obvious example is the Ottoman Empire. So for a longest time, the Ottoman Empire was the most powerful force in your in Eurasia. And this was the Ottoman Empire at its height in 1683 remember 1666 is when somebody Zevi declared himself the Messiah. Remember that Zevi have to convert to Islam, and the people follow him into Islam are called the Dong Mei the dome are very important people, but over time, empires will decay. In 1853

Prof. Jiang  8:53  
Russia attacked the Ottoman Empire, and this led to the Crimean War. The British and the French feared Russian expansionism, and so they supported the Ottomans, and the Ottomans were able to defend themselves against the Russians, but this alliance came out of cost to the Ottomans. The British and the French made the audience take out loans in order to finance the war, and over time, because of interest, they loan, these loans start to overwhelm the Ottoman financial system. And so what happened was the British and the French bankers came and established their own tax administration. And so from now on, a third of all revenue, tax revenue that the Ottoman Empire generated will go directly to the French and British bankers, okay, and so this caused the Ottoman Empire to decline rapidly over time, and the French and the British a central bank controlled by foreigners. Not only that, but they set their own tax administration. So they had their own tax agents, and that's why these bankers became very wealthy. Guess what? These bankers had a natural ally in a domain, right? The 17 frankers. And so these 17 frankers also became very wealthy. Now what happened is that the Ottoman Sultan didn't really like this relationship. He didn't like being bossed around by these bankers, and so he went to the Germans. And so now the Germans were now financing Ottoman Empire, and they were now allies, and so the British and the French didn't like this. And so what the domain did was start to finance a revolutionary group called the Young Turks. The Young Turks believed in three things. They believed in secularism, no religion. They believed in liberalism and they believed in individualism, okay, just basically the basic ideas of modernity. And eventually, the Young Turks were able to overwhelm the Ottoman Empire and establish something called the Republic of Turkey, which is still around today. So guys, the Republic of Turkey, if you're a turkey, it's a domain that control turkey. Okay, all right. So remember the domain come from Zapata Zevi. They are crypto Jews. They pretend to be Muslim, but they're, in fact, Jews, and these three domain will help to found the Republic of Turkey, and they still control Turkey together. Okay, so that's an example of an alliance between the something Farkas and the British Empire. Another example of an alliance is, of course, the Rothschild banking dynasty. This is Jacob Rothschild with King Charles of England, and this alliance goes back hundreds of years, and the Rothschild family is, of course, the most powerful banking families in the world. So there's a story of how they got rich in 1815 Napoleon and the British fought the Battle of Waterloo, and this would determine who controlled Europe. In the battle, the British and the Germans together were able to defeat the French. When this news happened, an agent of the Rothschild got into a Corvette, which is a fast boat, and they sailed all the way back to London to tell the Rothschild the news. The Rothschild controlled the media at that point, and so the media told everyone, oh my god, we lost the Battle of Waterloo. So as you can imagine, people start to panic. There was a stock market crash, and then the Rothschild bought all the assets, and that's how they became extremely wealthy. And this is a strategy that they continue to use throughout their history. Okay, so where the something Frank is and where the British Empire happened the most was in philosophy, developing a understanding the world that allowed them to amass more power. Okay, so let's go over quickly, over some basic British philosophy. So British philosophy, at this time, was controlled by Freemasons. We'll discuss the Freemasons more next class, okay, but the main purpose was to really deny God and truth. And there were three major strands of his philosophy. The first major strand is what called empiricism, and the most fierce proponent of this is John Locke. John Locke argued that we are born with a tabula rasa, a black mind, okay, a blank slate, and so whatever information comes into us is through experience, only through experience. Okay, not for reasoning, not because of God, not because of imagination or inspiration, not because of the mind spark in us, but through just experience and own experience. Okay, David Hume proposed a new idea called skepticism, and he goes further than John Locke. John Locke says that we experience the world, and that's how we know the world. Now the entire basis of science is the idea called induction. If I see a white swan 1000 times, I can then infer that all swans are white. This idea of induction, this is what underlies stomach process. Well, the idea of induction, you can never access truth. And what David Hume says is induction does not work. You cannot prove that just because you've never seen a black swan, Black Swans don't exist. Okay, you could have seen 10 million white swans. Does not prove that all swans are white and can only be white. And he's right, because there are black swans. Okay, so what he's saying is the very project of truth seeking, the very project of Azmain. Technology, a philosophy. It's all nonsense, knowing that, but we don't really know things. All we do is remember things. Okay, when we say that Rome is a capital of Italy, we think we know it, but we don't know it. It's all just convention. It's all just we agree to call place in Italy, Rome. We agree that that's a capital, okay? It's all just agreement, but there's no basis for truth here. All right, so now this, this race to the problem of, okay, if God doesn't exist, if true doesn't exist, if there's no way for us to reach truth, if there's no way for us to discover truth, then what can we do? And so Jerry Bentham proposed the idea of utilitarianism. The way we understand the world is this utility. If it is good for the majority of people, then it must be good. If it causes pleasure for the majority of people, then that policy must be good. If people want to eat candy all the time it makes them feel happy, then we should allow them to eat candy, and that is inherently good, okay? And then what his disciple, John sweet mill will do is he'll take the basis of this idea of utility as a as a basis of good and evil to create liberalism. Okay, so the very idea of liberalism today is based on utilitarianism. So for example, homosexuality, why is homosexually? Homosexuality good? Because, first of all, homosexuals want to be homosexuals. Okay, you force them not to be homosexuals, they'll feel bad. But also, what's more important is they're not doing harm to anyone, right? So if you just do the mathematics and you recognize that a lot of homosexuality is a is a positive and that positive and brings more pleasure in the world, then you should allow it, okay? And let's religious talk of it goes against the will of God. It's against the Bible. It's just, it's just nonsense. We should just focus on first principles and just focus on utility. Does it bring benefit to people? And this is the very basis of British, British philosophy. And then, as you can as you can appreciate, this aligns very much with the 17 frankest idea of the world, right? All right, so this is John shoot mill, and this is Jeremy bantham. And not only that, but once this philosophy is in place, they are now going to promote certain scientists that agree with this philosophy or whose findings support this philosophy. And those famous, of course, is Charles Darwin. Okay, Charles Darwin, right? When his book The Origin of Species, came out, it was an instant bestseller, and within 20 years, it became the mainstream understanding of how we originated. Even though you actually read the book, even though you actually look at science, it's still very problematic. All right, so this is very strange how science is supposed to be a field of rigorous debate, rigorous science, right? But the evidence supporting evolution is limited, and again, we discuss this all the time, but it doesn't explain to us how we come to think, right? It explains to us how we develop our bodies, sure, yeah, from apes, we get humans. That makes sense, but intellectually, we're a lot more imaginative than apes. How to explain that? And he doesn't explain that, okay? And you're not even allowed to ask this question, all right, so as this alliance between the seven Frank is and the British Empire is growing, there's certain individuals that become

Prof. Jiang  18:55  
these meeting points of these two different groups. Okay, so let's discuss two of them. The first is Benjamin Disraeli, and it's important because he becomes the first and only Jewish Prime Minister of the British Empire. Okay, my second person is Leon on the Rothschild, who is here to the Rothschild Beckman family. They're best friends, and you could argue the Rothschild banking, family finance, Benjamin Disraeli's back in Korea, okay? And in 1844 Benjamin Disraeli will publish a book called Conan's Conan's b It's a novel, okay? It's not a memoir, but it's a novel. When you read it, he will say that the characters are very much based on people that this really knows, and this really is very explicit and telling us why he wrote the book. And the idea is to tell the British people more about Jews. Because Jews, right now, in history, in Britain, they're an exotic species, and it's all. Able to establish how Jews think. Now, what's amazing about this novel is that you read it, and it's really strange, but it conforms to every single antisemitic stereotype that we say today. Today, you say that Jews rule the world. You say that Jews work together, they conspire together. You say that Jews think they're just superior to everyone else. You are labeled as anti Semite, okay, but you read this novel, and we'll read this down together. This is exactly what Benjamin Disraeli says, okay, about the Jewish people, all right, so let's, let's read together. Okay, so Amber, can you? Can you read? Please? This is the introduction to the book Connor speak, okay,

Speaker 1  20:49  
in asserting the Paramount character of the single keep coming. Okay. Polity and the majesty of the theocratic principle, it became necessary to ascend to the origin of the Christian church and to meet in a spirit worthy of a critical and comparatively enlightened age the position of the descendants of that race who were the founders of Christianity, the modern Jews had long labored under the Odium and stigma of medieval elements.

Prof. Jiang  21:27  
Okay, so what we saying is this, Christianity is a great religion, but it's important that we look at the origins of Christianity, and who found Christianity, okay, which is a Jews? We know. We know it's a Jews who create Christianity.

Speaker 1  21:40  
Okay, keep on going. In the Dark Ages, when history was unknown, the passions of societies undisturbed by tradition, traditionary experience were strong, and their convictions, mitigated by criticism, were necessarily fanatical. During the Dark Ages, everyone was just stupid, okay, keep on going. The Jews were looked upon in the Middle Ages as an accursed race, the enemies of God and man, the special flows of Christianity. No one in those days paused to reflect that Christianity was founded by the Jews, that its divine author, in his human capacity, was a descendant of King David, of course, is Jesus okay that his doctrines avowedly were the Completion, Completion, not the change of Judaism that the apostles and the Evangelists, who names men daily invoked and whose volumes they embraced with reverence, were all Jews, that the infallible throne of Rome itself was established by a Jew, and that a Jew was the founder of the Christian churches of Asia.

Prof. Jiang  22:48  
So this really is not just saying that Jews are important, but he's also saying that Jews are superior. These are the ones who created Christianity, and what he will say later on is Jews created everything because Jews are the most intellectually creative people in the world, okay, and remember, this really is a Jew, and he's one of the Jewish elite, okay, all right, let's keep on going. All right. So in the novel, the major character is Sidonia, who is a wealthy Jewish person based on the Rothschild family. Okay, and he's going to explain to us how Jews control the world. Can you read Alan? Yeah, Sidonia.

Speaker 2  23:32  
Sidonia was descended from a very Asian and noble family of Aragon.

Prof. Jiang  23:37  
Is in Spain. We discussed how before 500 years, the Jews were part of the Spanish Muslim empire, but when they were reconquered, they were forced to leave or convert that

Speaker 2  23:51  
in the course of ages, had had given to the state many distinguished citizens in the priesthood, its member had been pre quietly eminent, besides several prelates, they counted among their numbers and arc by Archbishop of tolato and Sidonia in a season of great danger and different differently the Difficulty had exercised for a series of years, the Paramount office of Grand Inquisitor, okay? So even

Prof. Jiang  24:26  
after the Christians reconquered Spain and after some Jews converted to Catholicism, okay, first of all, these Jews kept their faith secret. So even though, on the outside they were Catholics, and inside, they were still Jews. Okay, they were crypto Jews. But most importantly, these Jews rose to supreme power within the Catholic Church in Spain. The irony is that the Spanish the Spanish Inquisition, where Catholics were looking for Jews. Jews who are pretending to be Christians. The leadership were Jews. The leadership were crypto Jews. Okay, this is what this really saying. I'm not saying this is true, but this is what this really is saying. Okay, keep on going.

Speaker 2  25:13  
Yet, strange as it may sound, it is nevertheless a fact of which there is no lack of evidence that these illustrious family during all this period, in common with two thirds of the origin array of nobility, secretly adhered to the Asian faith and ceremonies of their fathers, a belief in the unity of the God of sinia, Sinai and the rights and observances of the laws of Moses.

Prof. Jiang  25:44  
Okay, so, guys, two thirds of nobility in Spain were crypto Jews, Catholics as Scott Jews disguised as Catholics. Okay, all right. So again, I'm not saying this is true, but it's striking and really strange that a Jewish man who is very powerful will become Prime Minister of England. He's writing this stuff. Okay? He's putting the mouth and put in the mouth of basically a Rothschild. Okay, can you read Amber?

Speaker 1  26:16  
The sidonias of Aragon were new Christians. Were nouveau christianos. Christianos, some of them, no doubt, were burned alive at the end of the 15th century under the system of Torquemada. Many of them doubtless were the San Benito. But they kept their titles and estates, and in time, reached those great office, offices to which we have referred during the long disorders of the Peninsular War, when so many openings were offered to talent and so many opportunities seized by the adventurous. A Cadet of younger branch of this family made a large fortune by military contracts and supplying the commissar Commissariat, Commissariat of the different armies at the peace, prescient of the great financial future of Europe, confident in the fertility of his own genius, in his original views of fiscal subjects and his Knowledge of national resources, the Sidonia feeling, the Madrid, Madrid, or even Cadiz, could never be a base on which the Monetary Transactions of the world could be regulated. Resolved to emigrate to England, with with which he had, in the course of years, formed considerable commercial connections. He arrived here after the peace of Paris with his large capital, he staked all he was worth on the Waterloo loan, and the event made him one of the greatest capitalists in Europe.

Prof. Jiang  27:50  
Okay, so these crypto Jews, they had a lot of money, but not only that, but they have a lot. They have an Information Network, because they have relatives brands all throughout Europe, and there are indexed to a superior. And so they know how history will develop, and they see a good money making opportunity in war. So when these wars come out, what these Jews do is they support both sides. They can't possibly lose, and then they make a lot of money, and then they figure out where it is in the most advantage to be. So there's absolutely no national loyalty. Don't see themselves as belonging to a certain group of people a certain nation. They see themselves as first and foremost Jews. Okay, so when the time presented itself properly, the Sidonians, they will migrate, some of them, not all of them, will migrate from Spain into continental Europe and up to England. They saw England as the future. And of course, from England, they will also migrate to United States of America. Alan, can you read, please,

Speaker 2  28:49  
the only human quality, sorry.

Prof. Jiang  28:51  
So the father goes to England, and now he establishes the begging dynasty, and his son will now inherit everything, okay, and so and so, this is about the sun.

Speaker 2  29:02  
The only human quality that interestedonia was in intellect. He cared not whence it came, where it was to be found, creed, country, class, character in this respect, were alike, indifferent to him. Okay, so again, this is a very

Prof. Jiang  29:19  
anti semitic trope where Jews don't like the idea of nation or culture or religion. They like the idea of ideas, okay? And one antisemitic trope is that Jews have a conspiracy to degrade religion, culture, society, nation state, in order to advance their own interests.

Speaker 2  29:47  
The author, the artist, the man of science, never appealed to him in vain. Often he anticipated the wrongs and wishes. He encouraged their society was as Frank in his conversation as. He was generous in his contributions, but the instant they ceased to be authors, artists or philosophers and their communications arose from anything but the intellectual quality which had originally interests him, the moment they were rash enough to approach intimacy and appeal to the sympathizing man instead of the congenial intelligence he saw them no more. So this

Prof. Jiang  30:24  
is a really important idea where, again, this is propaganda for Jews, right? So this really is saying how great Jews are. Jews are intellectual. But you know what Hegel Friedrich, Hegel will say is that about culture, there can be no great ideas. Okay, ideas emerge from community, from culture, from belonging. So think of Homer or Dante or even the Yahweh is okay. If you, if you think that you are intellectual above culture, above nation, above people, you will not produce great ideas and keep on going.

Speaker 2  31:01  
It was not, however, intellect, merrily in these unquestionable shapes, that commanded his notice. There was not an adventurer in Europe with whom he was not familiar. No Minister of State has such communication with secret agents and political spies as Sidonia, he held relations with all the clever outcasts of the world, the cattle catalog of his acquaintance in the shape of Greeks, Americans, Moors, secret Jews, tartans, geese, geese. Okay.

Prof. Jiang  31:34  
Sorry, that's fine. Okay. Look, the idea is that Jews are international, first and foremost, international, the custom Paul Tim, right? And as a result, what will happen is that, over time, because he is in contact with so many different groups, he's so intellectual. He's always reading his history. He comes convinced that the superior race, the greatest race of humanity, are the Jews. Why? Because, unlike other races, the Jews refused to intermarry. They refused to breed with other cultures and so as So, as a result, the Jews are first and foremost peer. They are Aryan. Okay, this is really ironic again, because the Nazis will use this idea 100 years later to justify the Holocaust, but at this time in history, the Jews think that they are the superior race, because they are the most pure. Okay, so this is all that is saying. All right, can you read amber

Speaker 1  32:37  
in this country, siedonia? So this country, of course, is England. Right? Since the piece, there has been an attempt to advocate a reconstruction of society on a purely rational basis. The principle of utility has been powerfully developed. I speak not with lightness of the labors of the disciples of that school. I bow to intellect in every form, and we should be grateful to any school of philosophers, even if we disagree with them, doubtly grateful in this country, where for so long a period of our state, statesmen were in so pitiable an arrear of public intelligence, there has been attempt to reconstruct society on a basis of material motives and calculations.

Prof. Jiang  33:23  
So again, this is the ideal you did terrorism, right? This is Jeremy Bentham, John Stuart Mill. Come on going. It has failed.

Speaker 1  33:29  
It must ultimately have failed under any circumstances. Its failure in an ancient and densely peopled kingdom was inevitable. How limited is human reason? The profoundest inquirers are most conscious. We are not in depth to the reason of man for any of the great achievements, which are the landmarks of human action and human progress, it was not reason to be besieged Troy. It was not reason that sent forth the Saracen from the desert to conquer the world.

Prof. Jiang  34:03  
Okay, so the Saracens are the Muslims, okay?

Speaker 1  34:07  
That inspired the Crusades, that instituted the monastic orders. It was not reason that produced the Jesuit. Jesuits about above all, it was not reason that created the French Revolution, man is only truly great when he acts from the passion, never irresistible, but when he when he appeals to the imagination, even Mormons counts more votaries than Bentham. And you think then that an imagination once subdued the state, imagination may now save it. Man is made to adore and to obey, but if you will not command him, if you give him nothing to worship, he will fashion his own divinities and find a chieftain in his own passion.

Prof. Jiang  34:57  
So suno is. Is emphasizing the limitations of British philosophy, right, law, Hume, Bantam, mill, they're all limited. And so what the British need is for the Jews, with their imagination, with their religion, to save the British, to lead the British, to guide the British. Okay, does that make sense? So again, this is trying to establish Jewish supremacy, okay, all right. This is much too long, okay, but what he's really saying is that, listen, we Jews. We want to be part of society. We are naturally conservative, but we also want to practice our religion. So if you at any point, if you the British at any point, try to restrain us, if you try to take away our religious rights, we will rebel against you. We are cohesive. We will stand up for liberalism. We will stand up for secularism. We will stand up for individualism, because these three philosophies are what most protect us from religious overreach, okay, does that make sense? Okay, so that's what he's saying. So Alan, can you start here? You never observe,

Speaker 2  36:09  
you never observe a great intellectual movement in Europe in which the Jews do not greatly participate. The first Jesuits were Jews.

Prof. Jiang  36:18  
This is true. Okay, guys, the Secret Intelligence Agency of the Catholic Church were first Jews. This is true,

Speaker 2  36:26  
that mysterious, mysterious Russian diplomacy, which so alarmed Western Europe, is organized and principally carried on

Prof. Jiang  36:34  
by Jews. So the Jews are the agents of the Russian Empire,

Speaker 2  36:38  
that mighty revolution which is at this moment preparing in Germany, and which will be, in fact, a second and greater reformations, and of which so little as yet no in England, is entirely developing under the anspee auspices, auspices of Jews who almost monopolize the professional profession, professorial chairs of Germany. Okay, so this isn't happening yet.

Prof. Jiang  37:05  
Okay. He's saying, this year, 1844 he's saying, like the revolution you will see later on in Germany, we organize it. Man. We Jews organized it. Why? Because we control the academies. We control the professions of Germany. Keep on reading.

Speaker 2  37:17  
Ninger, the founder of spiritual Christian Christianity, who and who is re religious professor of divinity in the University of Berlin as a Jew? Okay, so keep it

Prof. Jiang  37:29  
on going. Okay, we won't read it about how many professors are Jews. Okay. Do you understand? Now? What's amazing is, again, this came out in 1844 and 1848 there were revolutions throughout Europe, throughout Germany. So, how did the Israeli know about this? Well, possibly because the British were helping to finance all this, right, from the alliance between the British, except between frankis. All right. Can you read Amber? Okay, from here, okay.

Speaker 1  37:59  
A few years back, we were applied to by Russia. Now there has been no friendship between the court of St Petersburg and my family. It has Dutch connections, which have generally supplied it and are representations in favor of the Polish Hebrews, a numerous race, but the most suffering and degraded of all the tribes have not been very agreeable to the Caesar.

Prof. Jiang  38:22  
Okay, so what he's saying is, we're very rich, and nation states come and look for us for money. Okay, so Russia wants a loan from us. We said, No, you mistreat the Jews, so we're not gonna give you any money. Okay, the Russians are notorious for being Azmain at this stage. Okay, keep on going.

Speaker 1  38:39  
However, circumstances drew to an approximation between the Romanovs. The Romans are the controlling family of Russia and the Sidonians. I resolved to go myself to St Petersburg. I had, on my arrival, an interview with the Russian Minister of Finance, court count Catrin. I beheld the son of a lethian Jew. The loan was connected with the affairs of Spain. I resolved on repairing, repairing to Spain from Russia. I traveled without intermission. I had an audience immediately on my arrival, with the Spain Minister Signor Mendez Zabel. I beheld one like myself, the son of a nuevo Cristiano, a Jew of Aragon. In consequence of what transpired at Madrid, I went straight to Paris to consult the President of the French Council. I beheld the son of a French Jew, a hero, an imperial Marshal and and very appropriately so, for who should be military heroes, if not those who worship the Lord of hosts and is salute a Hebrew yes and others of the French marshals and the most famous Masin. For example, His real name was Manasa. But to my anecdote, the consequence of our console consultations was that some northern powers should be applied to in a friendly and mediative capacity. We fixed on Prussia and Prussia, and the President of council made an application to the Prussia, Prussian minister who attended. A few days after our conference, count Arnim entered the cabinet, and I beheld a Prussian Jew. So you see, my dear Connor's way, Connor speak honestly that the world is governed by a very different personage from what is imagined by those who are not behind the scenes. So it's

Prof. Jiang  40:55  
Jews who control the world, because only Jews get along together. Okay? So if Jews didn't exist, the world couldn't get along, right? And Jews hide everywhere, and that's how the world works, guys, you think the person in charge is in charge, but actually it's a secret society of Jews. Now, again, I'm not saying this is true. I just find it really weird that Benjamin this really is writing about this. Okay? And again, he's getting a lot of situation from the Rothschild banking family. So the Rothschild, for whatever reason, think they control the world. Okay, so I don't go much into this in detail, but I will point out that there is evidence that this is true. All right, so we're gonna look at the Communist Revolution in Russia together. I also want to keep you in mind that I don't think this is true. Actually, there's evidence that's true, but I do not think this is not think this is true. Why this really is writing about this, we will discuss next class, okay, but it's all part of a secret plan, all right. But first, let's look at the evidence that this may be true. Again, I'm not saying this is true, but there is evidence that this is true, okay, and the main, major piece of evidence is the Communist Revolution, the Bolshevik Revolution, 1917 that overthrew the government of Russia to create a communist government. All right, first, let's talk about revolution. There are four elements you need in order for revolution to be successful. Okay, the first is you need a really charismatic leader. Second is you need a broad mass appeal, usually land for the peasants, freeing debt, okay? And end of war, peace. Then you need organizational discipline. Everyone has to get along, okay, that's be a cohesive group. The last element, of course, is you need incompetent opposition. Your enemies are moron, okay? And of course, the classic example of this is Mao Zedong versus Chiang Kai Shek, okay, Mao Zedong was a charismatic leader with a very strong organization, and Chiang Kai shed, even though he had a huge army, even though he had the American army, even though he had all sorts of benefits, he was a moron, okay, and that's why he lost, all right, so the same is true for the Russian Revolution. This is a van there, Lenin. He's not charismatic, but he is extremely focused. He's fanatical. And this is Leon Trotsky, who is very charismatic. He's very great speaker. And he's a Jew. Okay, so I will point out that in 1917 he helped lead the revolution. But before that, he was actually United States. He had an apartment in New York City paid for by wealthy Jewish bankers. His uncle is a very wealthy Jewish industrialist in Ukraine. Okay, so he's part of this transnational capital network, and even though he himself is revolutionary, he hates capitalism, if someone gives you money, you cannot help but be influenced by that person. Okay, that's just a reality. All right, so October 1917 is when the Bolsheviks launched a revolution and they seized power, and then a month later, they organized an election. And as you can see, they are actually not that. They are not the most popular party in Russia. They only have about 23% of the vote. The Socialist Revolutionaries actually have much more popularity than they do. They are 37% and they have all these different groups, the Ukrainians, the cadets, who are liberals, the Mensheviks, the Cossacks. So at this point in history, Russia is divided into so many different groups. You have different ethnicities, you have different political programs, you have different orientations, okay? And this is what will launch the great civil war, okay? And now let's have a history. Remember, the Bolsheviks only control a certain part of Russia. They are the official government, but they only control a small part. And the White army with the which. Combination of the liberals and monarchists, they have a much more stronger military. And also, at the same time, you have all these different ethnic groups, Ukrainians, rebelling against the Bolsheviks, including the polish. But over the next five years, slowly, the Bolsheviks will obtain absolute power. And so the question is, how they do that? Well, the first tool is terror. This is called the Red Terror, where they went around and killed anyone who opposed them. Now, what you don't understand is there's actually a strategy behind the Red Terror. The very idea is to steal as much money as possible from wealthy people. Okay, so you're a nurse a crowd. You have a lot of wealth hidden. I need your money, so you either give me your money or I will kill your daughter, and I will kill your son and I will then I will kill your wife. Okay, so it's your choice. Give me all your money or I'll kill everyone in your family. So the Bolsheviks were fanatical about this, and that's why they won the war. Leon Trotsky organized the Red Army and the war against the White Army. Okay, they're also the greens, which were these peasants, so there's a lot. So the Bolsheviks were far behind. So how the Bolsheviks, the Red Army, win the war. Well, guys, they had a lot of help. Okay, they had a lot of mercenaries coming to the country, 10s of 1000 mercenaries to help them, especially the Chinese mercenaries, the Latvians, the Hungarians, okay, why? How did they get all this money? Transnational capital, Wall Street and City of London were bank holding the Soviets. Why were they doing that? Also, we have to remember that at this time in history, during the revolution, Britain and France, United States, Japan sent armies into Russia. Now, what you learn in class is, oh, it's because they are capitalists and they fear the communists, and that's why they sent armies to try to reduce the Bolshevik threat. That's not true. Guys. Why they said the armies is because the Bolsheviks reneged on debt. Okay? Russia owed a lot of money to Britain, Japan, United States and France. And so these armies were sent in order to threaten the Bolsheviks. So what the Bolsheviks, Bolsheviks did was they show as much money as they could from the peasants, nobility, from the Treasury, and pay off these armies. And then these armies helped them in the war against the whites, okay, does that make sense? Okay, all right, so let's summarize what we've just learned. Now. What you're taught in history class is American Britain needs Russia in war against Germany, and that's why and the Germans control the Bolsheviks, and that's why Britain and America will not support the Bolsheviks. And the kind of argument is, no, it's natural capital that has influence over Anglo American foreign policy. Okay, do you understand Anglo American foreign policy. It's not to serve national interests. It's not it's to serve private capital. That's the first point. Second point is the Bolsheviks are communists, and so they're a threat to capitalism. And the kind of argument is actually transnational capital cares about profit. They don't care about ideology. All right, what drives them is money, not ideas. The third argument is the Moses hated imperialism and capitalism, so they will refuse to work with Wall Street and the City of London. And the kind of argument of is that they believe that the ends just by the means, we just have to, like do what we need in order to obtain power, then we create our socialist paradise, okay, all right, all right, so this is a book called Wall Street and the Russian Revolution. Sorry, my Richard. By name of Richard Spence, he spent a lot of time collecting documents that show that, in fact, transnational capital were helping the Bolsheviks win power in Russia. Why? Because they believe in the bullshit. No, because translator capital, first and foremost, steals. You understand. They like revolution, because revolution is opportunity to steal as much as you can. Okay, you can buy things really cheaply during a revolution. And this, this is his argument, all right, so let's read a couple of passages from his book. So Emma, can you read please?

Speaker 1  49:45  
The Pro bosvic faction, faction on Wall Street had a most outspoken pitchman in the former mentioned William Boyce Thompson departing petrol grade he arrived back in the state. Debates on Christmas day in 1917 on 18th January, he sat for an interview with a representative of DOE Jones and published in The Wall Street Journal.

Prof. Jiang  50:10  
Washington journal, of course, is the newspaper of Wall Street, despite the

Speaker 1  50:14  
fact that Bolsheviks had proclaimed an armistice armistice on the Eastern Front and open peace negotiations with Berlin. Thompson insisted that the Russians would never conclude a separate peace.

Prof. Jiang  50:28  
Wait, so he's just lying to people. Okay, the Bolsheviks want peace of Germany. They promise peace to the people. That's why they're popular, and these Wall Street bankers are just lying to American people. Okay, keep on going. He pooh

Speaker 1  50:40  
poohed reports that there was anarchy in Russia, and said that the Russian people were trying to adopt socialism as the basis of their government. If they were allowed to succeed, an extremely democratic, well managed country will emerge, in other words, an excellent business environment.

Prof. Jiang  50:57  
So what the boys basically did was they took all the gold they had to ride Wall Street so that Wall Street would go and brainwash American people. Okay, that's the strategy here. All right. Can you read Alan?

Speaker 2  51:09  
Yeah, for those on Wall Street and elsewhere who dreamed of putting the brakes on Russia's economic development and seeing its reaches and resources up for grabs under a regime willing to sell anything that dreams have basically come true.

Prof. Jiang  51:24  
So it's really important to understand the British Empire was fighting a war against Germany. Russia was an important ally, right? They didn't care, because for Britain, they want to destroy everyone. Okay? So that's why they support the Russian Revolution, because they knew the Bolsheviks would destroy the Russian economy.

Speaker 2  51:44  
So keep on going. From 1918 through early 1921 bolswick War community communism reduced Russian to an economic, economic based on barter and robbery. Besides the abolition of private trade and the destruction of the monetary system, the rat regime embarked on a massive looting campaign, recycling, recycling, rent, psyche palaces, bank vaults, churches and museums. They expropriate every volume valuable they could get their hands on, and stash it all in a new state treasury by the close of 1921, and estimate, $450 million in what valuable had been sequestered, sequestered, sequestered, there with more to come. Much of it does not this destined to be fenced abroad for a fraction of its value in capitalist, capitalist hard currency. So this is how Empire works.

Prof. Jiang  52:47  
Guys, okay, they destroy nations in order steal as much as they can. What happens afterwards? They don't care. All right, it's that simple. All right, okay, so after the Bolsheviks consolidated power after the win Civil War, everyone assumes that Trotsky would be the new leader, but it's Stalin that becomes the new leader. Okay? Why? Because after the war ends, there's exploitation among the Bolsheviks that, you know, we help the transnational capital so much they help us rebuild our nation, okay? They're gonna give us loans. They will give us technology to help us rebuild Russia. And guess what happened? Transaction capital says, Now, you guys are good, we're good. We made our money. Okay? And so now what's happening is that Leon Trotsky, who is a Jew, he gets blamed, right? Because Leon Trotsky is the one who bought a national capital. He's the one who facilitated this exchange. And now the bullshit is thinking, Oh, this is Jewish conspiracy. You Jews were planning us all along to steal everything from us and then screw us over in the end. Okay? And that's why Stalin won. All right, so let's go over the difference between Leon Trotsky and Joseph Stalin. Leon's Trotsky did not work for transnational capital. Okay, he was first and foremost a revolutionary who was interested in global revolution. He had, he had a calling to transform and save the world, but he was accused of being transnational capital, and because he was a Jew, that was just assumed that he was a spy, okay? And he also had a personality which was arrogant and aloof. Stalin had his own issues, okay, but he benefited from the fact that Trotsky was a Jew, and he was able to slowly amass power for himself. He also has a background as a police informant, but, but being a spy for the capitalist was a much worse crime, all right, and that's why justice Stalin won in the end. And this is terrible for the Jews, the Bolshevik Jews, who believe. Leave in a revolution, because they all got killed by Joseph Stalin, okay, Leo trotty was killed along with his with all his children. All right, so it's not just that Tristram capital supported the Bolsheviks. They also supported Karl Marx. Okay, all right, so Karl Marx has an interesting background. He actually comes from a many generations of rabbis, so he's basically a Jewish aristocrat, and he was German, but then he moved to England, and he wrote many letters, wrote many books to promote communism. These books aren't going to sell well. So he was poor all his life. But what's interesting is he lived a very nice life, okay? He he lived in England, and he lived a basic, middle class life. So what did he get all his money from? Well, he got, he got all his money from Frederick Engels, who was a friend of his, and whose father was an industrialist. Okay, a Jewish industrialist. So why would a Jewish capitalist support Karl Marx? And the answer is, Because communism benefits transnational capital. Okay, so why? Why would it benefit transnational capital? All right, can you read Amber. So this is a letter written by Tom Marx.

Speaker 1  56:23  
Okay, for as soon as the distribution of labor comes into being, each man has a particular exclusive sphere of activity which is forced upon him and from which he cannot escape. He is a hunter, a fisherman, a herdsman or critical critic, and must remain so if he does not want to lose his means of livelihood. While in communist society, where nobody has one exclusive sphere of activity, but each can become accomplished in any branch he wishes, society regulates the general production, and thus makes it possible for me to do one thing today and another tomorrow, to hunt in the morning, fish in the afternoon, rear cattle in the evening, criticize after dinner. And as I have a mind without ever becoming Hunter, fisherman, herdsman or

Prof. Jiang  57:11  
critic, so the problem with capitalism is that it degrades our individuality. We as individuals want freedom to enjoy ourselves, right? This is a very frank kiss idea, right? We want to enjoy ourselves. Want to be free to enjoy the pleasures of life. Well, capitalism is the idea of specialization, right? Where you're forced to do one thing, one thing only, according to the needs of the capitalist. Okay. Can you keep on reading Amber?

Speaker 1  57:42  
Supposing that we had produced in a human manner, in his production, each of us would have doubtly affirmed himself and his fellow men. I would have objectified in my production my individuality and its peculiarity, and would thus have enjoyed in my activity an individual expression of my life. And would have also had, in looking at the object, the individual pleasure of realizing that my personality was subjective, visible to the senses, and therefore, a power raised beyond all doubt. Okay.

Prof. Jiang  58:11  
So what we say here is that before each of us were crafts people, so I might make a vase, okay? And when I make a vase, then this vase is a expression my individuality, expression of my creativity. And by looking at this vase, it becomes a objective symbol of my existence. I can look at this vase and my own individuality, individuality will be reflected back to me. Okay, keep on going

Speaker 1  58:41  
in your enjoyment or use of my product, I would have had the direct enjoyment of realizing that by my work, I had both satisfied a human need and also objectified the human essence, and therefore fashioned for another human being the object that met his need.

Prof. Jiang  58:56  
Then I give this vase to a friend, and I see this vase at my friend's home, right? He puts flowers, and he's very happy with his vase, and I can see my impact in the world. All right. Keep on reading Amber.

Speaker 1  59:12  
I would have been, for you, the mediator between you and the species, and thus between and thus been felt by you and acknowledged as a completion of your own essence and a necessary part of yourself, and I would thereby have realized that I was confirmed both in your thought and

Prof. Jiang  59:28  
in your love. Okay, so this vase now shapes your reality, and I know that this vase has given you meaning and it has shaped your reality, and therefore I find meaning in that. Okay, again, this is very frankis attitude, right? Where you can project your imagination onto people, and it can shape the way he or she sees reality. Okay, this is very similar concept you're going

Speaker 1  59:51  
in my expression of my life, I would have fashioned your expression of your life, and thus, in my own activity, have realized my own essence, my human. Communal essence,

Prof. Jiang  1:00:01  
okay, right? So, again, this is something that sounds perfectly correct, right? And the reason why it sounds correct to us is because it becomes a basis for our society, okay? The idea of individual, individualism, the idea of materialism, okay,

Speaker 1  1:00:17  
keep on going. In such a situation, our products would be like so many mirrors, each one reflecting our essence. Thus, in this relationship, what occurred on my side would also occur on yours.

Prof. Jiang  1:00:28  
So this is a really important metaphor, okay, he's saying that objects become mirrors where we can see our own individuality reflected. Okay? And this goes against the religious concept, where our humanity is all reflected in each of us. Okay, so, so what he's doing is creating a material outlook. Does that make sense? He's denying the existence of God. He's denying the existence of spirituality, but he's concepts of religion and applying to material world, right? He recognizes that we have the spiritual, religious needs. And what he's saying is that we don't need God to achieve these needs. We can have materialism achieve these needs, okay, which, again, is a very frank kiss concept. Keep on going.

Speaker 1  1:01:16  
My work would be a free expression of my life, and therefore a free enjoyment of my life in work, the peculiarity of my individuality would have been affirmed since it is my individual life work would thus be genuine active property, presupposing private property, and my my individuality is so far externalized that I hate my activity. It is a torment to me and only the appearance of an activity, and thus also merely a forced activity that is laid upon me through external, arbitrary need, not an inner, unnecessary one. So why

Prof. Jiang  1:01:50  
would transnational capital support this idea? The reason why is that, before the debate was mind versus matter, right? What matters more the spirit or the flesh. And what Marx is saying is no what matters with the debate, the dialectic is between private property versus public property. In private property, I have to work for someone else. In public property, I work for myself. That's the question. That's the debate. That's the dialectic. Okay, and so what by doing this? It's a very clever trick that transnational capital uses by making us think that the only thing that matters is private versus public, as opposed to mind versus matter. Okay, that's the goal of communism. That's why transnational capital is supporting this idea, because it advances the goal of Empire, which has turned us all into slaves. It does that make sense? All right, all right, so Marx is correct in analyzing the problems of capitalism, okay, but his problem is that he believes the solution is to make capital public, and as a result, this will create a workers paradise. But there are problems with this, okay, so let's go over some of the problems. Okay, Marx believes that history is linear progress, so capitalism will lead to socialism, which will lead to communism. It is a linear progress. Okay. Second is a problem that history is theological meaning things go the way they should. Marx also believes that what matters is class struggle between the rich and the poor, as opposed to between spirit and flesh. Okay? Now, last thing that's that's the most problematic is Marx believes you need a vanguard in order to lead the proletariat into a socialist paradise. You need an elite in order to lead us into paradise. And this esophology is all frankis, right? This is something that we learned last class. It's something that Frank proposed, where his group is a new people, which will lead people into a material paradise, right? So all Marx is doing is taking Jacob Frank's ideas and systemizing it. Now I'm not saying that Marx was a frankest. He's probably not a frankest, but what I'm saying is that there are people around him, like Frederick Engels, who could have been a frankest and as such, and they used their money to influence Marx in a way, okay, and we and we can suspect this, because there's certain ideas that don't make sense. If you are a socialist, you believe in democracy, but Marx believed in a dictatorship, okay, that makes no sense, all right. So this is Mikhail Buchanan, and he was a socialist, he was an anarchist, and he believes. He agrees with most of Marx analysis. But where they disagree is this, Marx believed, you need a Vanguard, okay, like Frederick Frank believed, but Buchanan says, no, no, no, you have a Vanguard. They'll just become a new capitalist class, okay. What's the difference, man, that you are a socialist, you have to believe in democracy. You have to believe that everyone has capacity to make his or her decisions, and that has that must be the basis of your new society. Otherwise, we're gonna go back to the way things are before. Okay? It'll just be another Empire before. It's a British Empire, and that's the Russian Empire. Who cares? What's the difference? All right, so let's read some can Okay, all right. Can you read Amber?

Speaker 1  1:05:47  
As for us, we want neither phantoms nor nothingness, but living human reality, and we recognize that man can feel free be free, and therefore can achieve freedom. In order to be free, I need to see myself surrounded by free men and be recognized as such by them. I'm free only when my individuality, reflected in the mirror of the equally free consciousness of every individual around me comes back to me strengthened by everyone's recognition.

Prof. Jiang  1:06:14  
So this is really important. Okay, this may seem the same as Marx, but well, they're saying different things. Marx says, No, the object is a reflection. And what we kind of say, no, no, no, the other person is a reflection, okay? And this goes back to Dante zorthusra Jesus, there's a divine spark in us, and we love someone else. When we care about someone else, our divine spark is reflected in that person's Divine Spark as well. Okay, and the object gets in the way. That is a crucial distinction. Do you understand? Okay, it sounds the same, but these are two rapidly opposing ideas. Where Marx says, No, it's the object that matters. As long as the object is created by yourself freely, then that is good. And what we kind of says, no, no, what matters is our relationship with each other. Okay, we don't need the object, the

Speaker 1  1:07:07  
freedom of every other individual does not limit my own as the individualists claim. On the contrary, it is the confirmation, realization and human dignity of all persons to see and feel my freedom confirmed, sanctioned and boundlessly expanded by universal agreement. Is happiness. It is human paradise

Prof. Jiang  1:07:26  
on earth. How you create paradise is through love. Okay? You understand not through objects, not through public property, not through socialism, but through love. Okay, the problem with Marx is he focused on the individual, what makes the individual happy? And what Kevin says is That's stupid. You have to focus on what makes a community happy, because it's only food happiness and others. Can we ourselves be happy? Okay? And this is something that Jesus said. Zorthusta Dante, this is what makes logical sense. And Marx is not a dumb guy. He's a really smart person, but he says it is something opposite, which suggests to us that he is being influenced by an outside force. Okay, he himself will not come to conclusion, that he himself will not come to conclusion that you need a Vanguard to lead the workers. All right, keep your meeting.

Speaker 1  1:08:22  
Amber available to everyone will be a general scientific education, especially the learning of the scientific method, the habit of correct thinking, the ability to generalize from facts and make more or less correct seductions. But of encyclopedic minds and advanced sociologists, there will be very few. It would be sad for mankind if at any time, theoretical speculation became the only source of guidance for society. If science alone were in charge of all social administration, life would wither, and human society would turn into a voiceless and servile herd. The domination of life by science can have no other result than the brutalization of mankind, okay.

Prof. Jiang  1:09:05  
So what he's saying is this the ultimate project of Marxism. When you have a elite, a vanguard in charge, this is no different, by the way, from transnational capital or the British Empire, okay, it would lead to slavery, all right, and quite honestly, he was right. All right, let's look at Simon Freud, okay, Sigmund Freud, like Karl Marx, is also extremely influential. He practiced medicine in Vienna. He was a psychologist, and so there are a lot of young women who came to him as patients. And for you would ask them, what's wrong with you? And a woman would say, I'm hysterical, okay? And at that time, historical just meant that depressed or anxious, I can't control my emotions. If a man talks to me, I like, I stutter and I I run away, okay? And. And I can't have personal relationships. I can't sleep, I'm sweating, I'm anxious. And then Freud, of course, would ask him, would ask them, Why is this happening to you? To you, okay? And then the woman would say, because when I was younger, when I was a little girl, my father raped me, okay? Incest. That's why this happened to me. And then Freud's like, wow, that sounds really strange. But then he looked at the literature, he talked to many patients, and he recognized that everyone was telling him the same thing. And it's true. I mean, it's just pure logic, right? If you are abused as a young girl by your father, you have a lot of social problems when you get older, okay, especially with men. And so he collects all this research, and he published a paper, which is very good, called the etiology of hysteria. And so, Emma, can you, can you please?

Speaker 1  1:10:53  
Above all my previously communicated assumption that trauma, specifically sexual trauma, cannot be stressed enough as a path a pathogenic agent was confirmed anew, even children of respected, high minded, puritanical families fall victim to real rape much more frequently than other had dared to suspect.

Prof. Jiang  1:11:14  
So this is what he's saying. Is this rape is a really common phenomenon, especially among higher society. Okay, keep on going.

Speaker 1  1:11:23  
Either the parents themselves seek substitution for their lack of sexual satisfaction in this pathological manner, or else trusted persons such as relatives, uncles, aunts, grandparents, tutors, servants, abusive, ignorance and innocence of children. The obvious objection that we are dealing with sexual fantasies of the of the child himself, that is with hysterical eyes, unfortunately, is weakened by the multitude of confessions of this kind on the part of patients in analysis to assaults on children. Great.

Prof. Jiang  1:11:54  
So what he's saying is, first of all, rape is very common, and these children are saying the same thing. Okay, keep on going if

Speaker 1  1:12:02  
you try, in an approximately similar way to induce the symptoms of hysteria, to make themselves heard as witnesses to the history of the origin of the illness. We must take our start from Joseph Brewer's momentous discovery. The symptoms of hysteria, apart from the stigmata, are determined by certain experiences of the patients which have operated in a traumatic fashion and which are being reproduced in his psychical, psychical life in the form of mimic symbols.

Prof. Jiang  1:12:38  
Okay, so this is the ideas are simple, okay, these women, when they're being historical, when they're being anxious, depressed, it's because they suffered real trauma when they were younger. They're not making this up, okay? They're not imagining this because a lot of people are arguing them all like you're just fantasizing this. Okay? And they say, No, no, no. The science tells us, the research tells us that you can only have these symptoms if you yourself experience it. Okay, you cannot imagine a leg injury. It has to you have to be hit by a card have a leg injury, and this is what he's saying. You have to be raped by your father or a trusted friend or a relative in order to have these symptoms. Otherwise, they can't exist. Okay, all right. Keep on going. All right. So this is a book by Jeffrey Mason, okay, and he was, for longest time and follower of Freud. Okay, Freud was dead, but he himself looked at Freud's personal letters, and what he discovered was there's a sharp break, okay? And early Freud was first amendment fig. He believed the woman who are his patients. But then later on, for the reason, he changes everything. Okay. So can you keep on reading Amber?

Speaker 1  1:13:58  
I therefore put forward the thesis that at the bottom of every case Wisteria, there are one or more occurrences of premature sexual experience, occurrences which belong to the earliest years of childhood, but which can be reproduced through the work of psychoanalysis, in spite of the intervening decades. Okay, so

Prof. Jiang  1:14:16  
again, he's writing these letters to his friends, and he's saying very clearly, I am certain, 100% certain, that if these women are suffering from depression or anxiety, it must be because of sexual abuse at an earlier age. And when I talk them, I can reconstruct the experience. Okay, because even though they're traumatized, the memory is still there. So through talk therapy, I can slowly reconstruct the experience, and this will help them heal, okay? And this is true. If the if the woman are able to reconstruct this experience, and they feel as though someone believes them, advocates for them, they will feel much more safe about the world. Okay? So this is true. This is very simple, okay, keep on going.

Speaker 1  1:14:59  
There are. However, a whole number of other things that vouch for the reality of infantile sexual scenes in the first place, there is the uniformity which they exhibit in certain details, which is a necessary consequence if the preconditions of these experiences are always of the same kind, but which would otherwise lead us to believe that there were secret understandings between the various patients. Okay, so what

Prof. Jiang  1:15:22  
he's saying is, is it possible it's conspiracy among these patients? Possibly, but they're telling me, they're giving me like these details. These details make a lot of sense. Okay, so he doesn't believe it's a conspiracy, but he does not discount the possibility of a conspiracy. Because he's a scientist, he wants to be rigorous. He wants to be absolutely certain. Okay, keep on going

Speaker 1  1:15:47  
in the second place. Patients sometimes describe as harmless events whose significance they obviously do not understand, since they would be bound otherwise to be horrified by them. Or again, they mention details without laying any stress on them, which only someone experience in life can understand and appreciate as subtle traits of reality. Great.

Prof. Jiang  1:16:08  
So he says that one thing about this trauma is this association. Okay, so these patients will reveal details that would shock anyone else. But she says it indifferently, which means that she was disassociated from the experience when it happened. So just by talking that person, you're able to reconstruct the experience itself. All right, does that make sense? All right, okay,

Speaker 1  1:16:35  
come on going, it is less easy to refute the idea that the doctor forces reminiscence of this word on the patient that he influences him by suggestion to imagine and reproduce them. Nevertheless, it appears to me equally untenable. I have never yet succeeded in forcing on a patient a scene I was expecting to find in such a way that he seemed to be living through it with all the appropriate feelings, perhaps other may be more successful in this.

Prof. Jiang  1:17:03  
So one major objection is, is it possible you're you are implanting false memories in your patient? And what he's saying is, okay, well, I tried this and it doesn't work, and maybe others. I mean, he doesn't deny that it's possible, okay, but he's saying, like, I myself have tried this and it has not worked. So he's being a very rigorous scientist, right? He's looking at all the possibilities, and he's discovering that, no, there's only one possibility, which is, like they are telling the truth. So he's advocating for his patients, okay? The problem, though, of course, is that the fathers who are doing this are extremely powerful men. These are frank kids. Okay, remember Frank kiss practice,

Prof. Jiang  1:17:55  
father daughter, incest, if you understand, okay, the sound of Franks are very powerful people, especially in Vienna, and this is part of their religion. If you do it over generations, it becomes multi generation trauma. You just do it because it's addicted to it, okay? And this is screwing up a lot of these young women. It's making them miserable, yeah.

Speaker 3  1:18:20  
So you mentioned that this kind of rape is frequently occurred in upper class. Why does it not so frequently in the lower class?

Prof. Jiang  1:18:32  
You know what? That's a good question, okay? And the answer is, if you are an upper class woman, you're much more likely to report this than if you are from the lower class. So I'm not saying, we're not saying that this occurs only among the rich. It could also occur among the poor, but it's a rich who have money to send their daughters to psychology, to psychiatrists. Okay, the rich are educated, and therefore they will report this. They understand this is a bad thing. Okay, so we don't have evidence to suggest that this is more common among rich, but what this is telling us is that among frankis, this is very common. All right, so after this happens, after Freud is reporting this and the frankists are getting angry at him, what happens now is an alliance between Freud and the francus. In fact, you could argue that Freud now joins the francus, and so now what we'll see is a radical change in how Freud perceives these patients. Okay, so, Emma, can you read please,

Speaker 1  1:19:35  
since childhood, masturbation is such a general occurrence and is at the same time so poorly remembered. It must have an equivalent in psychic life, and in fact, it is found in the fantasy encountered in most female patients, namely that, namely, that the father seduced her in childhood. This is the later reworking which is designed to cover up the recollection of infantile sexual activity. And represents an excuse and an extenuation thereof. The grain of truth contained in this fantasy lies in the fact that the father, by way of his innocent care caress in earliest childhood, has actually awakened the little girl's sexuality. The same thing applies to the little boy and his mother, it is these same affectionate fathers that are the ones who then endeavored to break the child of the habit of masturbation, of which they themselves had by that time, become the unwitting cause, and thus the motives mingle in the most successful fashion to form this fantasy, which often dominates a woman's entire life, seduction, fantasy, one part truth, one part gratification of love and one part revenge. Okay, so now this is,

Prof. Jiang  1:20:48  
like, really weird. Okay, what he's saying is these young girls, these young boys, they want to have sex. They're like, sexually obsessed. And whenever a father kisses them, which the Father wants to do. They think this is this is going to lead to sex, but the Father recoils at that possibility, and now the young girl feels rejected, but she has all these sexual desires, so she masturbates, but while she's masturbating, she feels anger and guilt at her father, and therefore she makes up these sexual fantasies that the Father is raping him, and that's why, and she's determined that the world know about this. That's how angry she is at him. Okay, this is complete nonsense. But guess what? Guys, this becomes standard, mainstream academic knowledge taught in schools and universities for many decades. Okay, this is called the Oedipal complex. That's electric complex. Have you guys studied this? Yeah, it's complete utter nonsense. Can you keep on reading Amber?

Speaker 1  1:21:48  
The motives, the motives for illness, often begin to stir in childhood, the love hungry little girl unhappy at having to share her parents' affection with her brothers and sisters realizes that all that tenderness comes flowing back when her parents are made anxious by her illness, the girl now knows a way of calling forth her parents' love, and will use this as soon as as she has at her disposal the psychical, psychical material necessary to produce A morbid state Once the child has become a woman, and in contradiction of the demands of the childhood, has married an inattentive man who suppresses her will, unstintingly, exploits her work and expends neither affection nor money upon her illness. Becomes the only weapon with which she can assert herself in life. It gives her the it gives her the rest she craves. It force. It forces the man to make, to make sacrifices of money and care that he would not have made to the wealthy woman, to the healthy woman, and it requires him to treat her with care if she recovers, because otherwise a relapse would be waiting in the wings. Her illness is apparently objective and involuntary, as even her doctor will be obliged to testify, and it enables her to employ, without conscious self reproach, this useful application of a means that she found effective during childhood. So why

Prof. Jiang  1:23:19  
is woman being hysterical later in life, because it allows them to control people, okay? It draws attention to them. They want attention, but also makes people obey her whims. Okay, this is gaslighting. All right. This is peer and other gaslighting. And the guys, this is what psychology is, just peer and other gaslighting, okay, all right. The problem, of course, is, how do you convince your patient that this is true? And so he develops a Mind Control technique called dream analysis, okay? This is his book, from the book, interpretation of dreams, okay? And it's all just mind control crap, where the patient is trying to recall dreams, and you're brainwashing that patient, okay? Because if you've discussed memory, the person like, I know what I saw, but his dreams, they can implant false memories that you can make suggestions, you can hypnotize that person, okay? And so psychology becomes now mind control, okay? So can you read Amber?

Speaker 1  1:24:22  
I think everyone who occupies himself with dreams will recognize as a very common phenomenon, that fact that a the fact that a dream will give proof of the knowledge and a recollection of matters of which the dreamer, in his waking state did not imagine himself to be cognizant, Cognizant in my analytic investigations, the nervous patients, of which I shall speak later, I find that it happens many times every week that I am able to convince them from their dreams that they are perfectly well acquainted with quotations, obscene expressions, etc. Okay, so

Prof. Jiang  1:24:57  
do you understand? So when, when the person. Is talking about his dream, you can now make suggestions, and that person will believe whatever crap you tell him, okay, and that's a secret of mind control. And guess what, guys, we still use this crap today. All right, all right. So Freud is, of course, gaslighting everyone because he has to protect his patrons of frankus, and the frankest will allow him to get very will become very famous. He'll get a lot of words. When the Nazis come to power, he'll go to England, where he's well treated. He joins the Royal Academy. The British protect him, and the British will then spread his views. Okay? He has a disciple, Carl Jung, who will take his Freud's ideas and turn it into a understanding, a systematic understanding, of how the mind works, and from this, will develop neuroscience. Okay, the problem of all this, this is public, because the problem of all this is, as Buchanan tells us, it's all self directed inwards, which gives us nowhere. Okay, it's just you looking into yourself. It's navel gazing, and from that you learn no truth at all. But that's the entire basis of our society. And so, so, yeah, so this is so our so this understanding of the mind becomes reflected in popular culture. Okay, back to Mackay Buchanan. He tells us that to be truly free, we all have to be free. We have to be free together. Okay, in each other, we find meaning, purpose and love. Okay, not in ourselves, but in each other. That's a difference. And so this leads us to a question, okay? And this is a question I don't know this today. It's also speculation. The question I want to leave with with you today is, is Marxism, liberalism, individualism, Darwinism, psychology, just psyops meant to turn us into slaves. Okay? That's a question that you have to carry with you. I don't know the answer to I don't know the answer to that. Okay, I'm just providing you with a theory and these connections, we don't know how close they are, okay? It may that. It may just be random coincidence. It could be constant effect. We don't know, okay, but this is that you have to ask yourself as you continue your study. Okay? So this shows us in lines between the 17 frankis and the British Empire. And so next class will be our last class, and in our last class, we'll talk about the past Judaica, okay, which is a culmination of all these trends. All right, any questions? Guys? Okay, great. So I will say everyone next class. You.

