Prof. Jiang  0:00  
Okay, good morning class. So we have five more classes in the semester, and the four last classes are the most important. So what I will do this class is set up the background and context for the last four classes. So what I'll do first is review what we've learned so far. So we discussed the Roman Republic, the Roman Republic, and it was essentially an oligarchy. Okay? So oligarchy just means rule by the few. So it's very much like Sparta. It is a war society, and at this point in history, the fact that the Roman Republic was an oligarchy, basically in about 100 families that commanded it, okay, and these were called the patricians. It was actually to the advantage of Rome, because at this time, Rome was small, it was poor, it was at war. Okay? So in other words, even though there was nobility, they were not that much better off than other people, and everyone knew each other, so they were very open, energetic and cohesive society. And so over time, they became the most dominant society in the Mediterranean. They defeated Carthage, they defeated the Greeks, but now that they're an empire, the fact that Rome is an oligarchy is a huge problem, because now they are corrupt, unequal and stagnant, and one way that we know is Roman women just start to refuse to have children. Okay, so they were dying as a society, and at this point in history, what should happen is that they should build an imperial bureaucracy, a centralised, standardised system, in order to better manage the Empire. Well, they couldn't really do that because the oligarchy, the families, which now are about 50, okay, they refused to give up power. So rather than a centralised bureaucracy, the Roman Empire was, in many ways, a system in which different families have different families have different territories. And what this led to was constant Civil War. Okay, civil war. And remember, it started with sulla and then it went on to Judas Caesar. And after Julius Caesar, Augustus Caesar became the first Hmong equals, but he still failed us up the bureaucracy, okay, and so it kept on leading to war. Eventually, what happened was that Constantine decided this system doesn't work. So what I need to do is I need to reinvent the Roman people. And you do that by moving the capital from Rome to a new place he calls Constantinople, which now becomes the Byzantine Empire.

Prof. Jiang  3:40  
And there was an empire. Now, because it's a new culture, it cannot become a bureaucracy. In fact, their official language becomes Greek to Greek bureaucracy. And this is what we call the second Rome. At the same time, while this is happening, you have a massive migration of the steps people, okay, they're coming into Europe from many different locations. Why is this happening? Because in China, the Han Dynasty is waging a war against the steppe, nomadic people. Okay? The people call the Xiongnu then, so they're forced westwards, which forces the other steps people to migrate into Europe and into Central Asia. Okay, so these people are called the gulfs. And this was a huge problem for Rome, because their people are not having children, and yet all these massive migration coming in from the steps. And so what the Romans decided to do is divide. Right and rule. And so what this means is that Allah are absorbed into the army as mercenaries and as soldiers in order to defend the border, in order to fight these civil wars. Now remember last class, we talked about the rise of the Catholic Church, okay? And we discussed how the Catholic Church was, in many ways, being supported by these noble families. Not all of them supported the Catholic Church, but some of them did, and those that did had a huge advantage, because now what they can do is absorb these new migrants into the society where they're the top and the migrants are at the bottom. Okay, then the question then is, why would the migrants agree to this? The reason why is, in this society, it is very egalitarian, and for war purposes, they would elect a war leader, okay, but with this system, with the Catholic church system, this war leader can now become a nobility, okay, they can now join the 50 families to form a new nobility, okay, does that make sense? Guys? All right, all right, so at this point in history when Constantine sets up the basin empire, now the Roman Empire is gonna divide into two, a western part, a western part and an eastern part.

Prof. Jiang  6:47  
And these two parts are gonna have very different fates. The eastern part is still part of the Middle East, okay, the Levant Anatolia, Egypt, and so it is the wealthiest part of the Empire, and as such, it engages in wars with the Persian Empire, and this will define most of its history. Its capital, Constantinople, was designed to be invincible. You cannot lay siege to it. You cannot conquer it. And as such, the bison Empire was stable. In fact, it lasted for about 1000 years, which is very, very impressive, okay? And as I said, it's very wealthy, and so therefore it's really able to dominate the world through mainly trade and diplomacy. Okay? So it became an imperial bureaucracy. It fought wars, but usually used a lot of mercenaries because it had a lot of wealth, right? So that's the eastern empire. And guess what, guys, this is very similar to China. Okay, so think about China. When you think about the basin empire, they're not the same, but they're very similar in how they organise a society. The western empire is very different, because this is the poorest part of Europe. The other thing about this region is that there are lots of natural barriers, and so you have like these competing societies emerging, okay, different cultures, different societies, and they're protected by mountains, by forests, by rivers. So there's a lot of diversity. There's a lot of diversity within the western empire, and so the power that emerges is actually the Catholic Church,

Prof. Jiang  8:58  
and as Western Europe increases in power and Eastern Europe decreases in power, the Catholic Church will increase in power as well. Okay, how the Catholic Church come to dominate Western Europe? Because the West because Catholic Church believes it is out of history. So you kings, you compete for who rules the earth. But we the Catholic Church, we decide who goes to heaven. Okay, so the Catholic church becomes a dominant power in Western Europe. In fact, you can say that they are the empire now, but they are a spiritual empire, a divine empire that is out of history and which speaks for God. And as such, they become a very powerful empire as well. Up, okay, and this leads to tremendous conflicts throughout Western Europe, but there's a problem with Catholic Church, and we discussed this last class with the Catholic Church. It's trying to control the divine spark. Remember, Jesus came to tell us that there's a divine spark in us, and as long as we try to glow this Divine Spark, we can be with God. And the Catholic Church says, no, no, no, this Divine Spark, it is that of the devil, and we must imprison it. Okay? And this works most of the time, but now and then you have religious leaders who are rushed and said, No, no, no, the Divine Spark is within us. And so this leads to a lot of conflict. And ultimately, the solution the Catholic Church proposes is the idea of crusades, where warriors go and kill those who believe in the Divine Spark. And then they said a secret police called the Inquisition in order to search for those who oppose the Catholic Church. Okay, the Inquisition, the major idea is, if you believe in divine spark, you're not an evil person. You're a stupid person because you don't know better. So the idea of the acquisition is to educate you in the truth which is the Divine Spark is that of Satan, that of the devil, and therefore you must obey the Catholic Church, but if you insist on defining the Catholic Church, then you are a heretic, and therefore you must burn at the stake before you can pollute other people. Now eventually, what will happen is that as a conflict in Western Europe gets worse and worse, certain states will break away from the control of Catholic Church, and they will embrace a new religion called Protestant Protestantism, okay, and this is we'll discuss next class. So that's the history of Western Europe, okay, so now I want to talk about Constantine and the rise of the Byzantine Empire. So Constantine is what he does that's very important, is that he makes Christianity the official religion of Rome. So before Constantine, you had Christian emperors, but they did not make Christianity official religion, but he made Christianity official religion. The problem, though we discussed this last class, is that Christian is a franchise model, so different churches teach different things, and so Constantine was like, No, we can't have this debate if we will make this the official religion, what we need to do is have one orthodoxy, a unified ideology. Okay, all right, so at this time in history, there are two major debates, or two major source of confusion. The first is we call Christology. What this is, is the question of like, what's the nature of Jesus? Remember, the story is that Jesus is in heaven. Then he comes to earth. Mary gives birth to Jesus, then Jesus preaches his message, the Gospel. Then he is killed, and he is resurrected, and then he returns to heaven. Okay, that's the official story of Christianity. But there are lots of problems with the story, as you can imagine, if Jesus is the vine, how did Mary give birth to Jesus? Right? If you're a human woman and you give birth to a God, that means that you're God yourself. Okay, all right, so who is Mary and what is her power? Second question then, is, is is Jesus divine or is he human? Okay? Because if he's human, he dies, that's a sacrifice, right? But if you're divine, you can't die. So His death and His resurrection doesn't make any sense, okay? So this is a problem Christology, is Jesus human or is he divine? And there are different interpretations, okay, the first interpretation is, Jesus is the vine in heaven, but he's human in the world. Okay, does that make sense? So yes, Mary gave birth to Jesus, but she gave birth to the human Jesus, and not the divine Jesus, because you cannot give birth. To divine God, okay? And that's why his death makes sense. Because the Jews who died was a human Jesus, but once he died, he was resurrected, then he went to heaven. Okay, that's that's one explanation that Jesus is really human. My explanation is, No, Jesus is the vine, so Mary, but death doesn't really matter. Okay, he's just divine. So both are possibilities. What the Church says officially is Jesus is human and divine at the same time. Okay, this is the official ideology of the church. This makes no sense, guys, all right, but that's what you're taught. And so there are a lot, of course, people who are like, this isn't a stupid idea, okay? And these people will call the Nestorians, and they were persecuted by the Catholic Church, and so they went to Persia, okay? They went to the Middle East. They went to Persia. They went to Arabia, where they spread the message of Jesus. They taught Jesus as a human, as opposed to a God. They taught that Jesus was a messenger, okay, which is what I taught you, right? He's really a messenger of the monad. All right, so does that make sense? Okay? Now the second debate is actually more confusing than the first debate, okay? And it has to do with the nature of the three powerful forces, right, the three gods. You have God, the ultimate god, and you have Jesus and you have the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit is God expressed in the world. Okay, so when you have a when someone speaks to you, you think it's God, it's actually not God. It's the Holy Spirit. All right. So another question is, what's the relationship between these three, God, Jesus and Holy Spirit? And again, there are different explanations, and they kind of make sense. Okay, so the first is the idea of Modalism. Modalism is the is the idea that Jesus and God and Holy Spirit are just different modes of the same thing. They just change. So when Jesus is in heaven, He's God. When Jesus comes to earth as a human, he sees Jesus. And then when Jesus wants to communicate with us, he's the Holy Spirit. Okay, so remember, Paul talked to Jesus, but Paul didn't really talk to Jesus. Paul talked to the Holy Spirit. Okay, so it's the same force, but expressed differently. That makes sense, right? Second is the idea of partialism. Partialism is just the idea that God, Jesus, Holy Spirit, all part of the same divine force. Okay, so think of an ocean, right? The Pacific Ocean. The Pacific Ocean is huge, but there are different parts to it, right? So that's the idea of partial that makes sense, too, right? Okay. Now, third idea is the idea of Arianism, Arianism. And Arianism is just the idea that God came first, and therefore, and then afterwards he created Jesus. So in other words, Jesus is God, but he's second to the real God. Okay, that makes sense as well, right now, there are problems with all three.

Prof. Jiang  18:23  
Okay, the first problem journalism is, if you read the Bible, Jesus talks to God, Jesus talks to Holy Spirit. That's kind of confusing, because why would Jesus talk to himself? Okay, so there's a lot of inconsistencies in the Bible. Okay? So this doesn't really work. Partialism doesn't work either, because you think about it, if God, Jesus, Holy Spirit, are part of a divine aspect, then that divine aspect should be God, right? Not these three. Okay, that's really makes sense. And aaronism doesn't necessarily make sense, because the entire point of Christianity is to see that Jesus is God, right? We worship Jesus, not God. So if you're saying that God's superior, why should we worship God instead of Jesus? Okay, so this is problematic as well. So what Constantine did was he organised all the bishops of the different churches to come to Nakia, it's called the Council of nikea, okay? In order to come up with solution to this problem. And this solution is actually even more problematic than these three, okay? And it's called a Holy Trinity. So let's go over the Holy Trinity. What the Holy Trinity says is this God, Jesus and the Holy Spirit is. It, they are separate, okay, but they are equal. They are separate, but they're part of the same thing, okay? They're both separate and they are equal to each other, okay. Now, if you think about it, it makes actually no sense whatsoever. The only solution this problem is that this Holy Trinity is both nothing and everything at the same time it becomes reality on to itself. Okay, and the only way to understand this is to accept this as a reality. All right, so I know there's confusion, confusion, but think of the idea of money, right? Okay, so the idea of money is both nothing and everything. Money is nothing, but it can be everything at the same time as well, because it symbolises wealth. Does that make sense? So none of this actually makes any sense, and the only way that it makes sense if you force it to make sense, if you just memorise it. So think of math class. Okay, guys, I'm not sure if you appreciate this, but the entire point of math class is to make you stupid. Why? Because it is impossible for you to reason using mathematics, because mathematics doesn't really apply to the world. So everything that you can do is just memorise the formulas and apply the formulas to each other. Okay, and that just requires massive memorization and regurgitation. That's why, if you think about it, the best mathematicians are always in their 20s or 30s, because your brain has to be like, really energetic in order to process is information, but the older you get, the less capable you are in mathematics. Okay, does it make sense? This is really important, guys, the more math you learn, the stupid you become, okay, but this goes against, say, philosophy or teaching, right? The older you get, the wise you become. Why? Because the information that you're learning you can apply to reality, and then figure out what information makes sense actually, as you test this information against reality. Okay, all right, okay, so little question then is, why would they do this? And the answer is very simple, to make you stupid. Okay, so let's, let's just use a analogy. Let's do a thought experiment. The sky is blue, right? So we know the sky is blue, and now we're like, Okay, why is the sky blue, and is it always blue? And why are certain things blue? Okay, from this, I from this verb principle, the sky is blue. You can now start to ask more questions. You can, based on this idea, start to reason out more things. Okay, does that make sense? But let's just say I change and I say the sky is red. You're like, no, the sky is blue. I'm saying, no, no, the sky is red. If you do not say the sky is red, you are a heretic. I will burn you at the stake. You're like, okay, all right, so what you're saying is this. You're saying that blue is red, red is blue. And I'm like, no, no, no, blue is blue. Red is red. The sky is red. And you're like, that makes no sense. I'm just like, Okay, well, then I don't care, because if you do not say the sky is red, I will bring you at the sick, okay, I will fail you in school. Okay, you understand. So, another way of saying, this is your brain. The way it processes information is by using logic, right? Okay, so think, think about building. Think about building. Okay, think about building. Okay. Well, this makes sense, right? You're just acting built like blocks on top of each other. Build a building, right? But let's just say, I make it. I say, No, no, this is what the building looks like. Okay, this is empty. You're like, Well, that makes no sense, okay, so what I've done by forcing the idea of the Holy Trinity onto you is I basically taken a part of your logical system of your brain and emptied it out so it is impossible for you to connect things, okay? Because from this, what you can do is say, Oh, now I can just keep on building more things, right? But if the principle is there's a layer that is unseen or a noble you can't build on top of it, so your brain ceases to be able to process and be creative, right? Does that make sense?

Speaker 1  25:00  
Yeah, and I saw like people who learn as well, and also like they have strong ability in computer science. They all like work in Silicon Valley, and they are wealthy. But I think that also aligns our concept that they are pursuing the materialistic and they are, you know, the world is ruled by Satan. Is that true?

Prof. Jiang  25:23  
Yeah, okay, we'll talk about this later. Okay, but, but, yeah, if you work in Silicon Valley, you are a materialistic person who is incapable of thinking spiritually. Yes, that is correct. Also, like, also remember, like people do computer engineering and do mathematics like they're at the best in their 20s and 30s, by the time they reach over 40, they kind of burn out. Okay? Because you know, for for your brain to process all this, eventually burns out. Okay. Does that make sense? So again, I hate to say this, but math makes you stupid. All right. All right, is that clear? Guys, any questions? Okay? But as you can see, what's happening is that, because people are forced to learn this, they don't want to learn this. And it starts a series of wars within the Roman Empire, because Constantine and the byzant Empire is going to enforce this orthodoxy onto every Christian church, and this starts a series of wars, okay? At the same time the Byzantines, they are fighting the sassinin Persia. Sassinin Persia, okay, Egypt, the Lavalin. Levant. And this is Arabia, okay, so, guys, this is really important. This is a time in history, this 500 to 600 where there's a lot of conflict going on. Okay, remember, the first major conflict is between Byzantine and stained. Byzantine and sassinin Persians, okay. Second major conflict is the church orthodoxy against the independent church franchises. Okay, so Byzantine Empire is trying to enforce the orthodoxy on all different churches who refuse to who refuse the Holy Trinity, because it's such a silly idea. Okay? What this is gonna do is it's gonna force Christians over to the sassinians as well as Arabia, the desert, okay? And these are called Nestorians. And again, they believe that Jesus is a divine messenger, as opposed to God on Earth, also we have the Jews as well, because the Jews keep on resisting against the Romans, because the Romans forced the Jews to obey Christianity, and so the Jews escape into Arabia, okay, and at the same but the same time, the Jews want to return to Jerusalem. Right now, what's interesting is that most people don't know this, but Arabia is, at this point history, the most energetic, open and cohesive society in the Middle East. Okay? So first of all, it's open, because Arabia has always been a point of trade between the Levant Egypt and the Indus Valley Civilization India. So Arabia they do a lot of trading, but they also great. Are great fighters because they're great mercenaries. Why? Because as the sassinins and the Romans fight more and more, the Arabians are recruited in as mercenaries for their armies, and as such, they learn the most innovative warfare, and they're poor as well. So they're really good fighters, okay? And now what's happening is that the Arabians, the Arabs, are being are being exposed to new religions, and that's during Christianity as well as Judaism, okay? And both preach the coming of the Messiah. You.

Prof. Jiang  29:25  
Okay, so Arabia is rising in energy, but the bison Empire and the assassin Persians are decreasing in energy. Okay, the biases are fighting too many wars and they're imposing too much orthodoxy, which is turning people into slaves. And because the assassins are fighting the Byzantines in war. And as the Byzantines become more orthodox and become more bureaucratic, the assassins are forced to become much more bureaucratic as well, much more orthodox as well. And so the Nestorians are also being persecuted by the assassin. The sassinins, so the Jews want Jerusalem returned. And assassin says to the Jews, hey, if you fight for us, we'll return Jerusalem to you. Okay? And so the Byzantines, so the Jews went back Jerusalem and then pissed off the Byzantines, so they come and they kill a lot of Jews. Now, the thing about the Jewish tradition is they believe that when they're most persecuted, when all hope is lost, their Messiah will come to save them. Okay? So Jews are like, Oh, my God, the Messiah is coming. The Messiah is coming. Okay? And historians also believe the Messiah is coming as well. They believe that Jesus is going to return, and all it will take is for one charismatic leader to emerge in the Arabian Desert to say I'm a messiah. Follow me. What I will promise you is this, I promise you that you have the right to believe in whatever religion you want, because the mind Spark is in you, and you know how to best celebrate God by yourself. I promise religious tolerance for the Jews, for the Christians, for the Arabs, for everyone, okay, and so what will happen is this leader will emerge, and his name is Mohammed, and Mohammed will unite Arabia, and then he will unite the Nestorians. He will unite the Jews, and they will together fight to get Jerusalem back. They will fight to get to get against Persia. And guess what happens? They basically win about much resistance, because there's so much anger, so much opposition towards the assassin empire, as well as the bison empire, plus both empires are exhausted, and so this gives us the Islamic Revolution, right? Okay, the Arabs are able to sweep through and conquer most of the world very, very quickly when they do so, what happens is that Muhammad dies, and now what's happened is they have lots of different factions, right? The Missourians, the Jews, the Arabs as well, and they're gonna find a civil war amongst themselves as well. And then from the Civil War will emerge a new religion that we call Islam, okay, but remember, that's really important. Mohan himself did not preach Islam. All He preached was, I'm Messiah. I'm the messenger of God, like Jesus, and I will promote religious tolerance. We'll have a community of believers and followers in Jesus. But it doesn't matter if you're Jew, it doesn't matter if you're Christian. It doesn't matter what Christianity you are. You're free to believe whatever you want, because that's what God wants.

Speaker 1  32:40  
I think it worked on the although, like Muhammad said that you have the right to believe in your divine spark. But I think they all walk on the same road as Paul because they are formed and religion because they follow Muhammad, but not follow themselves. Okay?

Prof. Jiang  32:53  
So this really important idea, you guys need to understand the messenger of God, okay? The leader, the Messiah. He's never like un God. Follow me. He's always like a messenger of God. And the message of God is you are divine children. This divine spark is in you. You should not be slaves. I will free you from slavery. I will free you from tyranny. I will free you from poverty. Okay? That's always the messenger. That's always a message. What will happen later on, after some time, is you have a figure like polymer, who needs Island, tremendous, into my own empire, and then organised religion becomes organised. Okay, that's always a process. So think of Zoro stuff. When he first came, he was preaching a message. He was, he was a poor prophet. So is Jesus, so is Homer, so was Mohammed, but later on, people will turn his words into an empire. Okay, that's always the process. All right, okay, clear. All right. Okay, so let's do the PPT. Okay, so, so, so we can better understand what happened. Okay, so, as we discussed before, at this point, at this point in history, the Roman Empire, it's huge, but please remember that it's not a bureaucracy, and therefore each region is controlled by a certain noble family, okay, the patricians. And as a result, what happened is as Okay, and these are, like, the 50 top families in Rome, and there aren't that many, okay? And when will happen is there are certain families that will adapt well to the change in the Roman Empire, mainly by, by embracing Catholic religion, okay, by being earning less. Others in the Catholic Church, and as such, they will continue on to today. We call these people the Black Nobility. Okay, all right, so as I mentioned, the there are different migrants coming in from the steppes, the Huns, the Germanics, the Slavs. They're basically all the steps people, okay, but they will come into different regions, and they will absorb, and they will absorb into Europe differently, okay? In the north, they're much more independent. And this is where the Vikings are, okay? These are where the Germans are. They're very independent, independent people. But as they approach the Roman Empire, they are assimilated and absorbed by the Roman nobility using the Catholic religion, okay? And so the people at the very bottom here, they become Christians, okay? But they become different types of Christians. Eventually they'll fight, fight the Byzantines, because the bison teens want to enforce an Orthodox Christianity onto them. Okay? And this is what Europe looks like when the Russian Empire Falls. Okay? As you can see, there are different societies as well. And again, what makes this possible is the fact that Western Europe, it has a lot of mountains, so it's pretty easy to fan your territory. So this is Constantine, and he is going to make Christianity the official religion of the Roman Empire when he becomes emperor. Okay, so, so again, even though, even though, even after Julius Caesar, the Romans cannot stop, cannot help but keep on fighting civil wars, and Constantine wins, one of them becomes emperor. He moves the capital from Rome all the way to Constantinople. Okay, this is really important because now you can establish a new culture called the Byzantine Empire. Okay, they call themselves Romans, but they're not really Romans, and more like Greeks. Another major difference is this, Rome is over in Western Europe. Cos is off in Eastern Europe, and so now it's and now Rome is now able to defend its war with provinces of Anatolia and Egypt much more effectively. Okay, the other thing about Kanpur that's really important is it's pretty easy to fan, okay, because it's by the sea, and if you build high walls, it's almost impossible for people to invade Constantinople. This is the Hagia Sophia, which is the official Church of the new religion. Okay? Today we call it Eastern Orthodox, but back then, it was just the Catholic Church, okay? And this is the Hagia Sophia. This is what kasempo looks like at its peak. And what's really important understand is it's very wealthy, but as you see, it's surrounded by these sea walls, which makes it impossible to defend, and that's why it was able to stand for about 1000 years. The council Nikia is where they make the Holy Trinity the official doctrine of the Catholic Church. Even today, guys, if you're Christian, you still recite it. It's called the same creed. So can you read it?

Speaker 2  38:07  
Alec, we believe in one God, the Father almighty, maker of heaven and earth and of all things visible and invisible, and in one Lord, Jesus, Christ, the Son of God, the only begotten, begotten of the Father before all ages, Light of Light, true God of true God, forgotten, not made of one essence with the Father by whom all things were made, whom, for us, men and for all salvation, come down from heaven and was incarnate of the Holy Spirit, and The Virgin Mary and became man, and he was crucified for us under Pontius Pilate, and suffered and was buried. And the third day, he rose again, according to the Scriptures, and ascended into heaven and sits at the right hand of the Father. And he shall come again with glory to judge the living and the dead, whose kingdom shall have no end, and in the Holy Spirit, right?

Prof. Jiang  39:04  
So this, what this does is establish the idea that Jesus, God and Holy Spirit are separate, but they are one and the same. They are different, but they are co equal. All right? If you actually study this next scene creed, you'll find a lot of inconsistencies. Okay, so Jesus Christ is a sin of God, but he is one with God as well. Okay, so you think about it, it doesn't really make much sense, okay, but again, then the scene creates something that you don't argue over because you argue over it you're here to be burnt at the stake. It's something that you you must memorise. It's like a math formula, basically, okay, in math class, you're not allowed to question a formula. You're just forced to memorise the formula. Okay. Okay. So as you can see, what's happening is. Is that the migrants are being settled throughout Europe, okay, but once they're being settled for Europe, the conflict between these noble families in Rome then become a conflict amongst these different groups, okay, all right, so after the Council of Nikia announced the Holy Trinity, there's still a lot of resistance to it. In fact, you know, even by the year 500 which was about 180 years after Council of Nikia, most of Europe is actually they don't really believe in the Holy Trinity. Okay, so Arian just means you don't believe in the Holy Trinity. Catholic means you do. And as you can see, this part which is controlled by this bosin Empire, it's, it is, it's able to enforce Holy Trinity, but most other parts are not able to enforce Holy Trinity. Okay, this is really important idea to understand. The ideal of Holy Trinity only takes force a few 100 years after it is announced. But in the beginning, there's a lot of resistance to the idea of the Holy Trinity. The Bosnian Empire must fight these wars to enforce it, okay? And it will, because as the Bosnian Empire becomes stronger and stronger, you can see these green arrows, it's gonna fight all these wars in order to expand the idea of the Holy Trinity. Okay? And kasambo can do this because it's very wealthy and it doesn't really fear any enemies because of high walls, okay, okay, as you can see, it's almost impossible to attack kasambo from by sea, all right, and the Azmain Empire, under Justinian will expand and expand an enforceable eternity on all churches. Okay? And by 565, it is at the peak of its power. But as we discussed, when the Empire become reaches its peak, it's usually it's probably going to fall really quickly, and that's what happens, all right, so, because of resistance or eternity, Christians are forced into the Persian Empire and into the Arabian Desert. Okay? At first, they're welcome by the Persians, because these tend to be very well educated Christians who contribute a lot to the Empire. Over time, the Zoroastrians see the Christians as a threat, and conflict arises between Christians and the Zoroastrians. The Christians will also go into the Arabian desert as well to promote Christianity. Okay, we can see how many, how Christianity spreads the story in Christianity also spreads to China and Japan, all right, one thing that you need to understand is that even though we don't, we don't really discuss Arabia a lot. It's a very important part of the world, fraud of history. This is a trade centre, okay? So India and you want to bring goods into Egypt, the best thing to do is to sail into Muscat and then have Arabian nomads carry the goods all the way to Mecca and then go into Egypt. Okay, so the Arabian Desert, we don't talk much about it, but it is a crossroads of empire, and it's a crossroads of culture as well. And there are Jews in the Arabian Desert, because, as the Romans persecute the Jews, the Jews go escape into Arabia because the Romans don't like Sam Okay, the Romans, what they're really good at is besieging cities, but they hate fighting sand. That's why the Romans cannot, can never conquer Persia. All right, so this is another map that shows the extent of the trade as well.

Prof. Jiang  44:02  
So as you can see, the Arabian Desert, it's connecting the world, right? Because, like you look at India, and India is now able to connect the world through the Arabian Desert. Okay, it looks as Europe, the Mediterranean and Egypt through the Arabian Desert.

Prof. Jiang  44:22  
Okay? So what's going to happen is that once Mohammed comes into place and unites the Arabian desert into a new community of followers, okay, they'll spread really quickly throughout the world. And as you can see there are now over a billion Muslims in the world, and you can see how many Muslims there are in the world.

Prof. Jiang  44:55  
So there's a lot of conflict between the Roman Empire, the Byzantines and the sassinin. Is as well. Okay, there are lots and lots of major battles. These wars are exhausting both empires, and this is this is going to enable the Arabs to rise in power, because as these two empires fight and their energy decreases, this energy is being transferred to Arabs, okay, because a lot of wealth is being charged for the Arabs, but also a lot of mercenaries are learning how to fight from the Byzantine from the bystandins as well as the Persians. Okay, all right, so the major event that sparks the Arab revolution is the persecution of the Jews. Okay, so Alan, can you read, please,

Speaker 2  45:46  
the Persian army, reinforced by Jewish force led by nehama Ben hasher and Benjamin of Tiberius would capture Jerusalem without resistance.

Prof. Jiang  45:57  
Okay, so the Jews want to return to Jerusalem. Remember, the Romans kicked the Jews out of Jerusalem, so they make a deal with the Persians. Okay? They basically say to Persians, if you support us, we'll support you in the fight against the Romans. And that's what happened. But once that happens, there are lots of Christians within Jerusalem, and they call the Byzantines for help. And, um. So the Bible is calm, and they take they went back to city because the Christians helped them, but they start masking masculine a lot of Jews, okay,

Speaker 2  46:33  
the capture of Jerusalem was interpreted by Jewish writer in the Masonic context. Sacrifices may even have been renewed on the Temple Mount. Control of the city was handed to nehama Ben hashiel and Benjamin of terberus. Nehama was then appointed the ruler of Jerusalem. She began making arrangements for the building of the Third Temple and sorting out genealogies of established new high priesthood.

Prof. Jiang  47:03  
Okay, so this is almost the Bible where the Jews were kicked out of Jerusalem by the Babylonians, and the temple was burned down. And so what? So what the Jews believe is like now, the new messiah will return. We have to rebuild the Third Temple, because in their religion, the Messiah will return all Jews Jerusalem and build the Third Temple. Okay, keep on going.

Speaker 2  47:28  
After only a few months, a Christian revolt occurred. Nehama Ben hashu and his council of 16 righteous were killed, along with many other Jews, some throwing themselves off the city walls following the outburst of violence in Jerusalem. Jerusalem, the surviving Jews fled to shambaras encampment, encampment at cytherea Caesarea. Christians were able to briefly retake the city before the wars were breached by sahabr forces who lay siege to the city. Sources vary on how long the siege lasted, depending on the source, it lasted 1920 or 21 days.

Prof. Jiang  48:09  
Okay, right. So the Jews take which take over Jerusalem, and they want to build, rebuild their temple, and the Christians are angry because they think this is my city. The Christians Rebel, and the Russians help them, and the Jews are massacred, and a lot escape. Where they go? They go to Arabian Desert. Why do they go to Arabian Desert? Because they they believe the Messiah is going to come. And so they preach that, hey, the Messiah is coming. Okay? And in the Arabian desert there's a man who believes he's the Messiah. His name is Mohammed, okay,

Speaker 2  48:44  
all right, can you keep on reading? Jews were expelled from Jerusalem and were not allowed to settle within the three mile radius. A general massacre of the Jewish population ensued. The massacre devastated the Jewish communities of the Galia, Galilea and Jerusalem, only those Jews who could flee to the mountains of Egypt are said to have been spared.

Prof. Jiang  49:09  
Okay, so this is Wikipedia, okay, all right, so the first thing that Muhammad's gonna do is announce the Constitution of Medina, which is, say that I'm the Prophet. I am the Messiah, but what I promise you is religious openness and tolerance. It doesn't matter if you're Jew, it doesn't matter if you're Christian, it doesn't matter if you're Arab. You can practice whatever religion you want. It's it's called constitutional Medina, okay? That's a promise that Muhammad makes to all his followers. Okay? And we know this from the Quran, so we're going to read the Quran together, which the Holy Book of the Muslims, and what we'll see is that Muhammad is clearly promising tolerance for all religious factions. Doesn't matter what religion you are, you're allowed to practice whatever you want. Okay, so Alec, can

Speaker 2  50:04  
you read please? Oh, people of the book. Why do you argue about Abraham when the Torah and the Gospel were not revealed until after him? Why are you not reason? Here you are. You argue about things you know. But why do you argue about things you know you do not know AHA knows. Allah knows, and you do not know Abraham was neither a Jew nor a Christian, but he was a monotheist, a Muslim, and he was not of the polytheist. The people most deserving of Abraham are those who follow Him and these prophets and those who believe, Allah is the guardian of the believers.

Prof. Jiang  50:45  
Okay, so the legend is that Muhammad, when he was 40, he went into the desert, and in the desert he was meditating and had a revelation, an angel, Gabriel, visited him and spoke the truth of the universe the Quran is just a running down of all these revelations. Okay? And one major revelation is Gabriel. Gabriel tells to tell us, Mohammed, you're all children of God, you're all descendants of Abraham therefore, why you guys fighting? You guys should be working together. Okay? All these differences don't matter. What's important is for you all to remember that you all believe in the one true God. That's what matters. And these differences don't really matter. Okay?

Speaker 2  51:36  
They disbelieve with those who say Allah is Messiah, the Son of Mary. But the Messiah himself said, O Children of Israel, worship Allah, my Lord and your Lord. Whoever has So, sides others with Allah. Allah has forbidden him paradise and his dwelling is the fire. The rondos have no saviours, okay?

Prof. Jiang  52:05  
So this is really important. What the Quran is saying is this, Jesus is not God. God is God. God is Allah. Jesus is just a messenger, okay? And the messenger Himself, Jesus Himself said, worship God. Don't worship me. Okay, so this is a Nestorian position, right? Okay, Jesus is human. In Heaven, he's divine, but on Earth, he's human. Okay, keep on going.

Speaker 2  52:30  
They disbelieve. Those who say Allah is a third of three. But there is no dainty except one God, if they do not refrain from what they say, a painful torment well before those among them who disbelieve.

Prof. Jiang  52:45  
Okay, so it's just saying that the Holy Trinity, it's sacrilege. It's bless me. It makes no sense. Man. God is God. God isn't one of three. Okay? God is his God?

Speaker 2  52:56  
Keep on going. Why they not repent to Allah as ask His forgiveness. Allah is Forgiving and Merciful. The Messiah, Son of Mary was only a messenger before whom other messengers had passed away, and his mother was a woman of truth. They both used to eat food. Note how we made clear the revelation to them that note how delude they

Prof. Jiang  53:20  
are to say that Mary is divine. You say that Jesus is divine. It's all superstitious. They're all just messengers of the one true God, like Moses and like, like Moses before him, okay? And now, like Muhammad today, Moses, Jesus, Muhammad, are all message of God. Jesus was the penultimate, and Muhammad is the last, okay, the final messenger of God.

Speaker 2  53:46  
With him are the keys of the unseen. None knows them except he, and he knows everything on land and in the sea, not at least false, but he knows it. And there is not a single grain in the darkness of earth, nor is there anything wet or dry, but is in a clear record, record, it is he who takes you by night and he knows what you earn by day, then he raises you up in it until a fixed term is fulfilled. Then to him, is your return, that he will inform you of what you used to do. He is a conqueror over his servant, and he sent guardians over you, until when death overtakes one of you, our envoys take him a boy, and they never fail. Then they are brought back to Allah, the true Master. Unquestionably, he is the judgement, and he is the Swift, Swift test of Reckoners.

Prof. Jiang  54:41  
This is the subjection the monad, right? That's God. The monad is the universe. The monad is everything. It's the vine. Okay, stop saying Jesus is God. That makes no sense. All right, okay, so, as we discussed now, the Aryan desert is energised. Were energetic, because people thirst for religious liberation, okay, the Christians, the Jews, all unite behind Mohammed, and very quickly they're able to, once he's able to unite the Arabs, okay, they're now really quickly able to expand ours. They retake to Jerusalem, and they conquer the Persian Empire very, very quickly, because both of these empires, the bystandins and assassins, are exhausted. The main advantage of the bystanzines is they still have concentric pole which is impossible to conquer. Okay? So customer like is safe, but every else falls to the Arabs. Okay? And as you can see, how fast their conquest is, and this is only about 100 years, okay, they're able to basically conquer most of the Roman Empire. They take Spain, they take Northern Africa, they conquer Persia, okay, so really rapid conquest, because at this point in history, people are just sick of empires, and they're looking for religious liberation, okay, and over time, but over time, as Muhammad dies, the Muslims will fight amongst themselves, and they will establish different empires called caliphates, and they will break up as Well, and this will give time for Byzantines to um to re establish themselves, and then Western Europe will become more and more powerful.

Prof. Jiang  56:31  
Now, the Arabs will establish something called the azma Golden Age, and this marks a time of tremendous peace and prosperity for the world, because the Muslims are able to establish trade networks throughout the world. Okay? Why? Well, because when you do trade, the biggest problem is one of trust, right? How can I trust you to take my money to somewhere else? But if you're a Muslim, you are you must swear to Allah. Okay, so religion requires you to be trustworthy. That allows Muslims to work together and establish trade routes throughout the world. We can't really trust someone who's not Muslim, but you trust someone who is Muslim. Okay? So these Muslims go all around the world, and including into China. And as such, the Islamic empire is able to establish trade throughout the world, which brings tremendous prosperity to most of the world. Okay?

Prof. Jiang  57:38  
And as you can I'm not sure you still understand Islam, but Islam is a beautiful, simple religion that builds trust and community. This is Mecca, and this is the haj, where Muslims come from all other world, and they circle around the kebab, the cube. Okay, so Islam considered itself as the ultimate religion because it improves on both Judaism and Christianity. Okay, Christians believe they are improvement on Judaism. Islam's Muslims believe their improvement on Christians and Jews as well. Okay, now let's talk about the western empire, because that's where our focus will be for the next for the rest of semester, 476, the gulfs destroy Rome. Why? Because the power now is being shifted from the Empire to Catholic Church. Okay, so the Empire doesn't really have that much power. So what happens is that it recruits mercenaries to fight for them, but he can't really pay the mercenaries, so the mercenaries, in response, go and sack Rome, okay, but this time in history, Rome is no longer a power. It doesn't really matter anymore. Augustine, who is the main architect of the Catholic Church, okay? He takes Paul's ideas and systemize it. He teaches us in the city of God, that Catholic Church is out of history. It is beyond history. It is divine. Okay? So the Kings can fight over the land, but it's the church who will decide who goes to heaven and who burns in hell, and that's the power of the church. One thing to remember about Europe is that there are lots of geographic barriers which allows for diversity within Europe, okay, that's why Europe has so many countries, because historically, it's been very hard to unify Europe because of geography. And this allows for tremendous diversity, and it creates a lot of conflict as well, which drives innovation. Okay? So this. Is when the Roman Empire Falls. In the West, there are lots of different groups fighting for the remains. Now, what's really important to understand about history is we say the Roman Empire rises and falls. This is our understanding of them, okay, but from their perspective, the Empire never fail, because these warlords think that I'm the empire now, okay, and so what's gonna happen is that they're gonna be compete for the legacy of Rome, and eventually this leads to the rise of a new power, the Franks. Okay, so the Franks are expanding throughout Europe, and they see themselves as the here to Roman Empire. But how do you prove that you are here to Roman Empire? How do you legitimise yourself? Well, you need to get the Catholic Church on your side, right. So in about 800 Charlemagne, who is the king of Franks, he is crowned Holy Roman Emperor by the Pope, okay, and from now on, it is the Catholic church, the pope, who decides who will be the Holy Roman Emperor. There's other negotiating going on, but on public. For the public, the Holy Roman Empire is always anointed by God. This is Charlemagne, and today he is buried in the azkain Cathedral, one of the most beautiful buildings in the world. His body is still there. Okay, that came cathedral. This is what it looks like inside. Okay. Now the Catholic Church, because of this power, is now able to anoint the Holy Roman Empire. It becomes wealthy. Okay, so can you read this from the Bible?

Speaker 2  1:02:05  
Then Jesus said to us disciples, Assuredly, I said to you that it is hard for a rich man to enter the kingdom of heaven, and again, I say to you, it is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for rich man to enter the kingdom of God.

Prof. Jiang  1:02:23  
So as I keep on telling you, Jesus himself was very anti rich. Okay? He believed that the rich people, these are too focused on material acquisitions, could never go into heaven. But the paradox is that the Catholic church becomes extremely wealthy, okay, if you go to the Vatican, you can still go back and you visit St Peter's Basilica. It is one most beautiful buildings in the world. Extremely wealthy inside, guys, it's all gold, okay, all right, so the Vatican is, has, has been, historically, the wealthiest organisation in the world. And it was able to do this because Western Europe started to become very wealthy over time. Okay, so from about 1000 to about 1300 the population of Europe doubles because of technology innovation, because the climate is warming, allowing for agriculture, because of the rise of cities and because Europe is trading with everyone, okay, so at this time, Europe is becoming more and more wealthy, which makes the Catholic church really, really wealthy. Okay, these are different urban centres of Europe at this time, and they engage mainly in trade. Okay. So the church becomes a much more powerful idea than the Empire, okay? Why? Well, of an empire, it's the Emperor who's in charge, right? But the emperor is still human being, and therefore he can change his mind and he doesn't really know what he's doing. But in the church, the person in charge is God, who is perfect, immutable and eternal. Okay, so this is the ultimate authority, the church. Second is what is demanded. Well, an empire demands that you work hard, you labour, but the church demands your soul, your obedience, okay, therefore the church is able to extract more wealth from you. The last thing is, okay, let's say you don't obey the Empire. What's the worst thing to happen to you? Well, the Empire puts you to death, okay, not a big deal, but the church what it can do is send you to hell for all eternity. Okay, that's why the Catholic church becomes the most powerful organisation ever in human history. It's still true today. All right, so what makes the Catholic Church so powerful? What becomes a divine bureaucracy? Okay? Do. Yeah, and what it does is establish a very strict hierarchy. So the idea of the church is that God is distant, and God demands your obedience, right? So remember Augustine, City of God, remember Paul, right? So one thing is that when you go to church, the priest doesn't speak in your language, the vernacular. It speaks in Latin, and we don't really understand the language. Okay, you're not allowed to read the Bible because at this time, most people are illiterate. The Holy Trinity makes no sense. But again, you're not asked to debate it. You're not asked to question it. You're just, you just have to memorise it. There are lots of rituals to the Catholic Church. Some of these rituals are just really weird. So for example, of the Eucharist, where you believe that you're actually eating the Body and Blood of Jesus through the idea of transubstation. Okay, the church is powerful basically determine who goes to heaven and hell and for how long. And ultimately, if you don't, if you're a king, you don't obey the church, the pope can excommunicate you which which you say, I renew, I remove you from the Christian community. And therefore any other king can come and kill you, and it'd be good in the eyes of God. Okay, does that make sense? So this is how why the church is so powerful, but also explain helps us unexplained why the church is so corrupt as well. They have too much power, and ultimately they will use his power in order to enrich themselves. Okay, remember the Catholic Church. The people who control the Catholic Church are descendants of the Roman nobility, okay? And they will use Catholic Church to enrich themselves. They send them some called indulgences. And the idea is, let's say you're a rich person, and you did a lot of bad things, and now you're afraid you'll burn in hell, right? Well, Jesus will say, too bad. But the Catholic Church says, give us a lot of money and we'll give you an indulgence, okay? Basically, you know, a ticket to purgatory, all right? And so, as you can see, there's a lot of corruption going on, something called simony, where you can buy and sell positions in Catholic Church, very similar to the Imperial bureaucracy of China, right? They're selling holy relics. Priests are not really divine. They get married. They sell their positions to nobles, and the kings are the ones who can appoint leaders of the church as well. Okay, so there's this negotiation going on between the Catholic Church and the kings as well the parish, the parishioners, no matter how poor they are, they're forced to pay a tax. They pay a tax to the Catholic Church and not to the king. Okay, as you can imagine, the king is not really happy about about this, because a third of his land, most of his tax revenue, it's being taken over by the Catholic Church. So that's why a lot of kings will eventually start to rebel against the Catholic Church. The Church controls 1/3 of all land in your tax free. And this leads to feudalism, all right, so at the same time, though, even though the Catholic Church is so powerful in Europe, it says as a legitimacy problem, okay, meaning like, how does it prove that it is truly divine? Well, you have some certain problems. The first problem is the Muslims occupy the Holy Land, okay, if you are truly, if you truly represent God, why should you lose them in the hands of the Muslims. Also, Spain is part of Europe, but Muslim Spain is actually much more wealthy and innovative than the rest of Europe. 1054, the Eastern Orthodox Church, led by the Byzantines, break with the Catholic Church, okay? Because both want to be the ultimate centre of the world, but the Boston says that we're the centre, and the Romans say no, we're the centre. Okay? And there's corruption going on. Okay? Everyone sees a corruption. But there's also lots of religious leaders who are rebelling against Catholic church because they want to unleash the divine spark. Okay, so there's all this legitimacy problems going on, and so there are different solutions. Okay, one solution the Catholic Church does is that it persecutes Jews. Okay, so the Catholic Church allows Jews to exist just so that the Catholic Church can scapegoat the Jews. And throughout this time, as you can see, Jews are being persecuted, mainly by being forced at their homes where they lived for hundreds of years, okay, and a lot of them are forced to go east into the Muslim and. Empire and to go to Spain, okay, but over time, there's being expelled from these regions. This is another map that shows the persecution of the Jews. As you can see, they're forced to go east, okay? And often there are lots of massacres as well. Okay, so the black spots, okay, the skull spots are areas in which they were massacred. They were blamed for certain crimes. Okay, all right. So this a map that shows the pilgrimages of Christians into the holy land. And again, it's a source of embarrassment for the Christians that their holy land is occupied by Muslims, and they have to pay a tax with Muslims they go into the Holy Land. Right now the Holy Land Jerusalem is being controlled by the sodic Turks, okay, the Ottoman Empire, all right, and that's why Paul over the second will eventually call for the crusade to liberate the holy land from the Muslims. Okay, so can you read, please

Speaker 2  1:11:20  
all who die by the way, whether by land or by sea or in battle against the pagans, shall have immediate remission of sins. Or What a disgrace if such a despised and base race which worship demons should conquer a people which has the face of omnipotent God and is made glorious with the name of Christ. Let those who have been accustomed unjustly to wage private warfare against the faithful now go against the infidels and end with victory. This war, which should have been begun long ago. Let those who for a long time have been robbers now become knights. Let those who have been fighting against and brothers and relevance now fight in the proper way against the barbarians. Let those who have been serving as mercenaries for small pay now obtain the internal reward. Okay, so

Prof. Jiang  1:12:19  
this is, this is Pope Urban cycle, saying the Crusades, it's to go and fight the demons. If you fight a demon, it's no matter who you are. You could be poor, you could be rich, you could be a simple person, you could be a nobody. But now it's just your opportunity to go to heaven. Okay? The like, when you go to fight the demons, you will all be guaranteed access to heaven no matter who you are, no matter what you did. And so a lot of people go and join the Crusades for lots of different reasons, especially those who've committed crimes before. Okay, so guess what? A lot of people join the Crusades are criminals, because here's your opportunity to get good with the church, okay? That's why we see a lot of abuse during the Crusades. Okay? So as you can see, lots of people are now joining the crusades in order to liberate the Holy Land, and eventually they succeed. Okay, even though a lot of criminals, they're still very good fighters because they have religious devotion. Okay, they're very energetic, and unfortunately, they're too energetic, so they have tendency to massacre people when they succeed, because they literally see the Muslims and the Jews as demons. That's what the Pope taught them. One organisation that developed during the Crusades is called the Knights Templars. Okay, this is very important. We'll be discussing Knights Templars later on. Okay, but the Knights Templars is really the first multinational bank, because these pilgrims are going to Holy Land, and they need to bring money with them to fund the journey, but if they take a lot of money with them, then they get robbed, right? So what they'll do is they'll give the money to nice Templars, and then when they get to Jerusalem, the nice Templars will give the money back to them. Okay? So they're a bank, basically, and then they can use this money to start investing front of Europe. And so they become a very wealthy organisation. The problem is that because in Jerusalem and away from the authority of Catholic church, they start to embrace new ideas. They start to discover the true nature of Jesus from the Muslims and from other Christians in that area. And so the church thinks that they become more corrupt over time, and that's why their leader, Jack Dumoulin, he is burned at the stake. And in 1307 the organisation is banned by the Catholic Church. But a lot of survivors, they will go over to other places, and they will and they will form the basis of a secret society with. Call the Freemasons, okay? So we'll discuss the Freemasons later on. Okay, there's also something called the albergenesan crusade, so there are still individuals who believe in the Divine Spark, okay? And these people are calling cathers, and the church sees them as a threat, and that's why they launched a crusade against these catheters. Okay, so can you? Can you read Alan

Speaker 2  1:15:26  
Seaman and many of his soldiers made determined effort to convert the catheter perfect, but failed.

Prof. Jiang  1:15:33  
Okay, so again, the Catholic Church is if you disagree with us, it doesn't mean you're a heretic, it just means you're stupid. So our so we first want to educate you in what is right. Okay, the catheters believe that, no, no, the Divine Spark is in me. I know the truth for myself. You can never convince me. Okay, keep on going.

Speaker 2  1:15:55  
Ultimately, only three women recanted. The 140 who refused were burned at the stake. Some enter the flames voluntarily, not awaiting their executioners.

Prof. Jiang  1:16:06  
So if you believe in the mind Spark, okay, you believe you've discovered truth. You're not afraid of death. So you so the Catholics are saying like, if you don't, cat will burn you at the stake. The Catholics like good

Speaker 2  1:16:20  
in August, the crusade proceeded to besiege the stronghold of termus, despite Salis sallies from period rugged the decap decab rate, the siege were solid. The occupants of terminal suffered from a shortage of water and Roman realmond, the termus agreed to a temporary truce. The Cathars were briefly relieved by an intense rainstorm, and so Riemann refused to surrender. Ultimately, the defenders were not able to break the siege, and on 22 November, the catheters managed to abandon the city and escape. By the time operations resumes in 100 to 1211 the actions of honoured our armoury and Seaman D mountfort had aligned alienated several important lords, including Raymond D tolos, who has been excommunicated again. So as you can

Prof. Jiang  1:17:20  
see, what's really important understand is the crusade against cathers is not just a religious crusade. It's also one of geopolitics, where the local lords resent the power of the Catholic Church, and so they support the Catholics, okay, all right. So, and this is gonna happen throughout Europe, so the response of the church is to establish a new society led by Francis of Sisi, called the Dominicans. Okay? The Dominicans, which goes, which goes, and basically tries to figure out who the casters are, okay, by interrogating everyone, all right? And this leads to, of course, the acquisition. Okay? You. And so the idea is that if you disagree with church orthodoxy, they will figure it out, and if you refuse to recant, if you refuse to obey, they will burn you at the stake. Okay, so at this time in history, because of Inquisition, because of the public Catholic Church, Western Europe is one of the least innovative places in the world, okay, all right. And at first this is fine, but eventually bad things start to happen in Europe. Okay? So the letter the Little Ice Age begins, then you have the great famine, and you have more wars, then you have banana tree, okay? And then, of course, you have the black death. So if the Catholic Church represents the will of God and all this happening, then it's got really happy with the Catholic Church, right? So this is a black death which kills about a third of the European population, and people because they're religious, they think that this is the will of God. It's because the Catholic Church, it's corrupt, it's evil, it's stagnant. That's why God is punishing us.

Prof. Jiang  1:19:23  
Um, and this will lead to conflict within Europe, where the Catholic Church is actually broken into different parts as well. Okay, so there are some who believe that Rome is the true centre of the Catholic Church, but there are other people who believe that, amen, okay, is the true centre of the Catholic Church. And this creates even more legitimacy problems with the Catholic Church, all right? And then you have individuals who will emerge to challenge the orthodoxy of the Catholic Church. Okay? So this is, this is frayed hossainin, we won't read. We. John Wycliffe is a British person who was he didn't he was not punished when he was alive, but afterwards, after he died, decided he was a heretic. So what they did was they take up his body and then burn up the stake to make sure he burned in hell. Okay? Tien Hus will lead a revolution, okay? And this is called the Hossain wars, and doesn't succeed. But then another man will emerge called Martin Luther, who will eventually lead a successful revolution against Catholic Church, and this is called Protestant Protestantism, okay? And we'll discuss Martin Luther, next class, next time, next as well. We'll discuss the rise of capitalism. All right, any questions? Guys, yes,

Speaker 1  1:20:53  
like there's a case of my mother friend telling me that she, her, her her husband has a severe cancer, and they they try to pray to the Catholic Church, and like later, the cancer just disappears. And they said, it is miracle by the Catholic Church. And they all believe in the Catholic Church. Can it explain the miracle? Like, is there really? Miracle there?

Prof. Jiang  1:21:22  
Okay, yeah, okay, that's your question. Okay, so this is what we call the placebo effect. Okay, the placebo effect is basically, you feel really sick, and you're like, Doctor, Doctor, I'm really sick. I'm gonna die. Is there any medicine that can save me? And I'm a doctor, and I don't want to say there is no medicine, so I say, Okay, well, here, here's some, here's, here's a medicine. Okay, it might help you, but this, but this medicine does nothing. You take this medicine, and then you feel better, you get better. And this happens a lot, okay, it's called the placebo effect. So why does this happen? It happens because if you if you understand that mind leads to matter, then your reality is shaped by your perception, your belief. Okay, so if you believe that this medicine can improve your body, then it will have effects. Okay, the question though is, how much do you really believe in this medicine. Okay? So you can argue that cancer, it's really a question of loss of faith. What is cancer? Cancer is a splitting of cells, right? So why is your body literally falling apart? It's because you've stopped believing in yourself, you've stopped believing in the purpose of life. You've stopped believing that you have relevance in the world. Okay? So when you say, I want to cure my cancer, I want to cure my cancer, what you're really saying is, I want to find a new faith. I want to believe in myself again. I want to re establish my relevance in the world. Okay? Does that make sense? So you have that desire, once you have that desire, then the cure makes sense. Okay. So another thing this is okay, let's just say that you don't feel well, right? Well, if your parents make you go see a psychiatrist, you probably won't feel better. But if you yourself want to get better, you go see a psychiatrist. You'll probably get better. Okay, so why this person? Why he or she improved his or her cancer is because of faith. Okay, she won't get better. So if you're able to orientate your mind in a certain way, you're capable of tremendous miracles. I know another idea is that you have meditation, right? You're able to control your thoughts. If you're able to calm yourself down, your body will heal a lot faster. Okay, does that make sense? All right, any more questions? Okay, great. So next class, we will just we'll discuss capitalism.

