Prof. Jiang  0:00  
So we come to the end of the course, and all roads lead to Jerusalem, so we're going to take everything we've learned so far and combine it into a narrative about today and the future. So the grand thesis of this class is that six societies control the world, and this is something you can never prove. Okay, but let me propose a theory of how we can approach a truth theory of truth.

Prof. Jiang  0:47  
If you have a theory or an idea or a narrative, and it does these three things, then it approaches the truth. The first is that it connects the past. Okay, so does it help us put the past, things that we know that have in the past, into a coherent story that we can understand? Okay, that's test number one. Test number two is it explains the present, does it help us better understand the world we live in? And the last and the most important is predicts the future. From this narrative, we should be able to make certain predictions about how events should develop, and if these events turn out to happen the way we predict, then we can be more sure that our theory of truth is correct. Now let's be extremely precise, just because things turn out the way that we predict doesn't necessarily mean that our theories is 100% correct. Okay, because it's really important understand that correlation does not necessarily mean causation. So that's a caveat. No matter how well we predict the future. It doesn't necessarily mean that our theory is 100% correct, but our theory gives us a model to understand the past, the present and the future. Okay, so with very little evidence, I'm going to present to you a theory about how the world works, a story about how we got to where we are. And again, this is speculation. Some will call this conspiracy theory, and this is just meant to be a fighting class. So take what I say with a grain of salt. Okay. Ask good questions. Doubt what I say, but what I'll show you is that this theory, even though it doesn't really make much sense, and you may not believe it, it does help us connect the past, explain the present and predict the future. Okay, all right, so without further ado, let's go into this theory. So you remember Jacob Frank, who founded the 17 frankest movement, okay, and he will convert to the Catholic religion, and he will encourage his followers to also follow him into Catholic religion and also to infiltrate his societies. One of his friends. One of his patrons is Mayor Rothschild, who is founder, of course, the Rothschild banking dynasty, which we discussed last class. He will introduce Jacob Frank to another person named Adam Weiss Hart in Bavaria, okay, in present day Germany. All right. Now, Adam weisshat, he is actually a former Jesuit, okay, he's always a member of the Catholic Church. He's also a Jew, okay? And again, we don't have any evidence that these three actually know each other, but this is a theory. All right, so let's assume they knew each other. What they will do together is create a new organization called the Illuminati, and this organization is what controls the world, the Illuminati. Now there is a legend that Adam wazh when he created a Illuminati, he encouraged his followers to infiltrate another organization called the Freemasons, and these were extremely prominent members. Of European society, okay, these are intellectuals like Gerda. These were nobility, these were bankers. And so this the framework that controls the world. Okay, the Illuminati. Illuminati was able to penetrate the Freemasons, so now you have alliance of the other Jesuits, the Jews, the 17 frankist The Catholics and the Freemasons, okay? And this, so this is the alliance of secret societies. Now there is a legend that what happened is that Adam Weishaupt, he was eventually arrested for conspiracy by the authorities. And so the organization, the Illuminati, has been disbanded. It no longer exists. But there are others who argue that's not what happened. In fact, it was Adam Weishaupt himself who spread the legend that there was a secret organization called Illuminati. Okay, so it's so the entire thing was to generate publicity. But in reality, Illuminati was not disbanded, and it still exists today. So why would they do this? And the reason why is that secret societies, like every organization, depends on publicity for recruitment. Okay, so it's free publicity. If you read a newspaper that there's a secret organization that's trying to conquer the world and which the authorities don't like, then a lot of people will be like, how do I join this organization? Right? And that's what happened, all right? So the irony about secret societies is they have a structure, which is like a triangle, okay? At the very top is the leadership. This leadership is secret. You don't know who they are. You don't know what they do, okay, but they usually come from very noble families. We call these the 13 families. Okay? Then at the very bottom are just the public members, and they think that what they do is just good stuff, okay? So the Freemasons, they actually don't know what the leadership does. The key is the middle management, these people, okay? These people are the ones who are who do all the work, and these people are selected for and Bishop, in other words, for power. They're willing to sell their souls. All right, okay, so when you have different secret societies together, a major problem that you have is coronation. And the idea here is you have different leaders, and how do you get them to work together? Also, after these leaders die, how do you ensure that the new leaders will coordinate together? And the answer to this problem is the idea of eschatology. We'll discuss eschatology, but eschatology comes from the Greek word eschaton, which means the end. So eschatology means your understanding of how the world ends, of how to create paradise on earth. And what I will show you is that even though these different groups have different eschatologies, there are convergence points which allows them to work together. Okay, so let's go over the major eschatologies and remember what's really important to understand is that these eschatologies are often secret. They sometimes change, and the details will be different, but so I'm going to present to you more or less a general understanding of different eschatologists. Okay, so let's start with the easiest which is a Jewish eschatology. What do the Jews believe? Well, the Jews believe that because they disobeyed God, because they worship false idols, because they sinned, they were expelled by God from their homeland, Jerusalem, to wander the earth, which creates the Jewish Diaspora. But eventually, what will happen is that a Jewish messiah will emerge to take the Jews back to Jerusalem, okay? And he will reconstitute the nation of Israel. He will recreate Israel, and then he will build, rebuild Solomon's temple. Why? Because Solomon's Temple is where God lives, and it is where the people of Israel make sacrifices to Yahweh in order to show their devotion to Yahweh. So Solomon's Temple is really important. There will be something called the war of Gog and Magog, where basically the entire world unites against Israel, okay, and the war of Gog and MA. Gog will be led by the Antichrist, the anti Messiah, the False Prophet. We don't know what Gog and Magog represent. Okay, what the Bible says is these are people from north but that could mean anyone and certain

Prof. Jiang  10:21  
Jewish scholars have interpreted Gok and Magog to represent Russia and Iran. Okay, this is important because of what's happening today, okay, but of course, when it seems as though the enemies of Israel, gogmagog, when it seems that they are about to win, God will intervene and ensure that Israel wins. And this will usher in something called the Messianic age, when Israel becomes the most dominant nation on earth, when it becomes the light of nations, when it becomes the light of the world, okay? Does that make sense? So that is the Jewish eschatology, and most Jews believe this. Then you have the frankest, okay? And the frankis sabatine francus, they make important changes to this eschatology. The first important change is the Jews believe that the Messiah will come when the time is right. So most Rabbi believe that the Messiah will come in the year 6000 in Jewish calendar, which is about the year 2040 sorry, 20, 2040, in archive, which is about 200 years later. Okay, so still a long time away. But the fregues believe that the Messiah has already come, right? Sometimes Zevi and then you have Diego Freck. So they believe that, first of all, there's that the Messiah is already here, okay, which means that the war can start. Second thing that they believe is that you don't wait for God to intervene. You can, you can accelerate domestic age by sinning, right? Because by sinning, what you're doing is you are defying Satan. It's Satan who created this world, and by sinning, you're defying His laws. You're defining his authority. And this will create more chaos. And you will, you will reveal how evil this world is. You accelerate the collapse, okay? Which will force God to intervene, and then at the end, then during the messaging age will happen. Is material pleasure, okay? So rather than everyone being spiritually peer, we'll have a lot of sex. We will have feast. We will live forever, okay, that's a frankest interpretation of this eschatology. Does that make sense? Then you have the Christian Zionist, okay, the Christian Zionists. I'll explain who the Christian Zionists are later on. Okay, but what the Christian Zionists will do is they will take this Jewish eschatology, but interpret it in a Christian context. Okay, so for the Christians, they believe that, yes, all this will happen, okay, the Jews will establish their mezzanine age, but this is really the antichrist system. Okay, the Antichrist, who is the Jewish Messiah, will establish a world government that will dominate the world, and He will establish something called the mark of the beast. Mark of the Beast is basically digital ID, okay? So just think of a microchip in your forehead, or wherever that and so you can be tracked. You can monitor, okay, so basically an AI surveillance system, okay, so this is what the message H of the Jews will look like, but it's the antichrist system. And eventually will happen is that the people will rebel against Israel, and this will leave something called the war of Gog and Magog. And when it seems as though Israel is about to be defeated in the Battle of amagain, what will happen is that Jesus will return. Jesus will return second coming, and he will take all the Christians to heaven. It's called the rapture, and then he will kill a third of the Jews. A third will convert, and this will usher the mezzanine age. Okay, so this is the Christian interpretation. It's called Christian Zionism. But as you can see. What's really important is the Jews first achieve their eschatology before the Christians can achieve theirs. The Christians need to use the Jews as a tool to achieve the Second Coming. Does that make sense? And what's really important is for the Solomon's temple. Solomon's Temple is where the Al Azmain Mosque is right now. So in other words, for this eschatology to happen, you will need to destroy the Al Azmain Mosque, which is the third holiest site in the Islamic world. And you can imagine how angry Muslims will be, and this might initiate the war of Gog and Magog. Okay, another important thing about this eschatology that's really important is you need the Jews to return to Israel. And how to get the Jews to return to Israel? Anti semitism. Okay, so not only do you have to destroy the Alexa Mosque, which is, you know, not very nice, but you also have to promote antiSemitism around the world to force the Jews to return. That's another part of this plan, right? As you can see, this is not a nice plan. It causes a lot of death, it costs a lot of suffering, cause a lot of persecution. But both Jews and Christians believe that for the mezzanine age to come, there has to be an age of tribulation. There has to be the Antichrist. There has to be the war of Gog and Magog. Okay, there has to be Emma garden, basically. All right, so is, this isn't making sense, okay, this is, this is the, again, the eschatology, which is a script, which is a plan that these societies must implement in order to achieve heaven on earth. The last people I want to talk about are the Freemasons. Okay, the Freemasons believe that they are sorry. The Freemason believe that they are of the Enlightenment. Sorry Freemasons, they are and they practice a new philosophy called theism. What makes theism different is that it's an enlightenment philosophy. So the idea is that God did create the world, the universe. That's why we are here. But then God left, and now, because of free will, free choice, we can do whatever we we want. Okay? And our mission is basically to achieve godhood through science, through open debate, through rational thinking, and what are the signs of godhood? How do we know that we can become God when we're able to do three things? Okay? The first thing is to warp reality, to basically manipulate the essence of matter, and we've been able to do that because of something called the nuclear bomb, right? So then we've achieved that. So in other words, when nuclear bomb was a Freemason project to achieve Godhood, but not only that, after we after they achieved the nuclear bomb, that they use it to show that they are God, right? Because, as we discussed before, at the end of World War Two, the Americans were fire bombing Japan. The war was over. They didn't have to drop the bomb, but they dropped the bomb on Hiroshima and Nagasaki. That's number one. Number two is they need to kill a king to show that they are God because the king is divinity, right? God gives birth to Kings. Only Gods can kill a king, and who do they kill? JFK, again, this is conspiracy theory. Okay, the third thing which a God does is create life. Okay? And this is something that they haven't done yet. Well, we can imagine what this is. This is AI, okay, so these are the three missions of the Freemasons, and they've achieved the first two. They've worked reality by creating a nuclear bomb. They've killed a king, JFK. Now the third thing they want to do is create life, which is AI, okay. In fact, we can also guess what, where this AI will take place. Why? Because let's look at a map. Okay, let's look at a map. This is the equator. 33 degrees north of the equator are four places, okay? Now, 33 degrees is very important in Freemasonry. There are 33 degrees in Scottish Freemasonry, it's a very sacred number. All right. So 33 Degrees north of the equator, you have four places. The first place is Trinity site, New Mexico in America, which is where they tested the atomic bomb. Okay, you go over across the Pacific to Japan. 30 degrees north is Hiroshima and Nagasaki. All

Prof. Jiang  20:22  
right. 33 degrees north in America is Dallas, Texas, where they kill JFK. So the last mission of Freemason, of Freemasons, to achieve their vision for the world, is creating AI right now. Question is, where would they do it? And the answer is, 33 degrees north of the equator, right? And where's that? Jerusalem. So this is the end game, guys, the Freemasons will create artificial intelligence in Jerusalem, and this will become the world government. Again, this is just conspiracy theory. Don't believe this. This is just for fun, okay, but if it happens like this, then that's interesting, okay, but that's but that is the grand plan to create a world government in Jerusalem, and what was the center of this world government, Solomon's temple, because the Freemasons believed that their founder was the one who created Solomon's temple. So by recreating Solomon's temple, you close the circle. Okay, so again, this is very complicated, and I don't get too many things wrong, but this is a general gist of it. And so what? And so what we can see is that all roads lead to Jerusalem. That is the case. Okay? Then this helps us understand certain things about the world that otherwise don't make any sense. All right, so let's go over them. The first thing that doesn't make any sense is America's war on terror. Yes, I understand that America was attacked on 911 I understand that. But why did that go attack Libya and Iraq and all these other places that had nothing to do with al Qaeda, and the answer is, they're trying to create something called the Greater Israel project. They're trying to have Israel become Pax Judaica, the grand power in the Middle East, because that's important in all secret societies, Israel must become dominant power in the Middle East. Okay, so this helps us understand why the war of terror happened the way it did. That's number one. Number two is right now America is threatening to attack Iran. Why would they do that? Because in order for Judaica to come into being, Iran must be taken out of the equation. Iran must be destroyed. Then that would happen, there'll be no challenge to the power of Pax Judaica. Okay. Does that make sense? Right? The third thing is Silicon Valley and AI. So right now you have aI chat GPT, which doesn't really do anything okay, it makes cool images on your computer and helps you cheat on in school, okay, that's about. It doesn't really do anything else. And if you don't go to school, then you're like, why am I using chatgpt? Okay, and you're not gonna pay a lot of money for it, so AI, it's a dead end. But the same time around the world, everyone's spending billions choices of dollars on data centers, right? So everyone's putting money into AI. But then you're like, Well, how do you make money off that? If you think the answer is for you to use AI, it's hard to make money off that. But if the answer is to create an AI surveillance state, that makes a lot more sense, right? A Suez surveillance state, very easy, guys. We have it in China, okay, it's digital ID and digital currency. And the idea is that everything you buy, everything you do, will be trapped, and so they can create a profile on you. This profile will tell the government who you are, how you behave, what you think. Not only that, the government can also manipulate how you think, how you behave, okay? And this is, of course, called the mark of the beast, right? And so. That's what paxi is. Pax is a global AI surveillance system. It also helps us explain immigration in Europe, okay? Because the war on terror, you've sent these millions of refugees from Libya, Syria, Afghanistan, Iraq, into Europe, which is causing a lot of conflict in Europe. Why would that happen? Well, for Pakistan to come into being, you need to destroy the world. Okay? So I'm not saying this is true, but I'm saying like, if the goal is paxtra deca, it does help us connect the dots. It helps us explain why things are happening the way they are. Okay. Also, the last thing is antiSemitism, okay. So you may have noticed, if you're online, people don't like the Jews, and this is like out of nowhere, after after October 7, you have any seminism over the internet. Now, I have criticized Israel before, okay, but anti seminism is not the same as anti Zionism, right? Zionism is a belief that Israel is a Hossain people and the promised land and all that, okay, but Judaism as religion, it's perfectly fine. So why would people not care the difference between anti Zionism anti semitism? Okay? And you can argue it's all purposeful, because remember, the part of the plan is to force the Jews to return to Israel. That's very important for this plan to work out. Okay, it's key. That's why you are seeing so much anti semitism around the world today. And the last thing, of course, and it's something we'll discuss, is something called the Red heifers. So red heifers are red cows that are perfectly genetically modified. And you need the red heifers in order to you have to sacrifice the red heifers to purify the ground in order to reconstruct the Solomon's temple. Okay, and guess what? They've already they've already sacrificed the Red Hat first, so it seems as though everything is in place. All right, they're moving towards Pax Judaica. All right, so let's discuss what will happen in the short term and the long term, if paxideca really is the end goal. Okay, so, when you have Israel fighting wars everywhere, okay, the main enemy right now is Iran. In Europe, you have the Europeans about to go to war with Russia in Ukraine, America right now is threatening to attack Venezuela. Okay, South America, you have 10% of the US Navy in the Caribbean, and they're about to attack Venezuela. You have China and Japan at conflict. You have India here near Africa. Okay, so what's going to happen in the short term? Okay, well, what we know is that Europe is planning to go to war with Russia. Europe is about to go to war with Russia, okay? At the same time you have a lot of immigrants in Europe, and this is going to create civil wars in Europe. Okay, civil war. So you have both war with Russia as well as civil war. So Europe is kind of screwed. Okay, America has the same situation where the left right divide is so polarized that eventually they'll go to war. If you read the news, you may have heard about the shootings at Brown University as well as MIT physicists who are shot. Okay, so random violence will be more and more common in the United States, and you can argue it's all deliberate, because the idea is this, let's just say you have a jar. You put red ants in a jar and black ants in a jar. They get along fine, but you take a jar and you just shake it up, and now they're at war with each other. Okay, that's what's happening. Where the lesson, right? They really don't like each other, they don't talk to each other, and they refuse to engage in debate with each other, but they're not gonna fight each other unless there's violence, in which case the trouble mentality. Takes over and they start killing each other, okay, so we're gonna expect civil war in the United States.

Prof. Jiang  30:06  
Then you're gonna have the Americans start to attack Venezuela and possibly other countries in South America. So America is in for a bad time. Okay? China, yeah, I mean Japan and China and India, they're all gonna have conflicts with each other. But also what we should expect is that America starts to embargo China, meaning America uses its sea power to block China from accessing resources more seas and China imports most of its oil and a lot of its food. So if there was a blockade of China, you can expect the Chinese economy to really suffer, okay, all right, but and then what we can expect to happen is America, at some point, will go to war with Iran, and this will destroy both countries. Okay? Iran will not lose this war, but it won't win this war either, because America is just gonna bomb the crap out of Iran. It's gonna send Iran back decades. But America will lose this war. But this is important, because America loses war, it's forced out of the Middle East, and once it's forced out of the Middle East, ultimately, assets goes to Israel, which creates the Pax Judaica. Does that make sense? Guys? That's the plan. Now you have Pax Judaica, and what pas judica will do is start to control the world, because through chaos and conflict, Pax Judaica can make a lot of money, right? Because Pax Judaica, what's gonna happen is that you have these technology companies like Google, they're going to move over to Pakshi Judaica and build a global surveillance state. Your civil wars. You need AI to control people. If you're going to war. Of Russia, you need weapons, okay, but you also need financing as well. So you can expect a lot of banks to move to Israel, and it's possible Israel becomes now the global reserve currency, because everyone is trading with Israel. If you're Russia, you need to trade with you need to trade your resources, right? Oil, energy and grain. Okay, so Russia controls a third of the world's carbohydrates. Guess what? Guys, Israel controls Africa. So what will happen is that Russia and other countries will sign a trading room of Israel, and Israel becomes a center of global trade. Does that make sense? So this is how Pax Judaica will profit. And remember that Israel has the world's best intelligence agency, the Mossad, and what they can do is go around the world and create as much chaos as possible. Okay, so while the world is burning, Israel, Patrick is profiting, and that's what the future looks like for next 1020, years. And this will of course lead to the rise of the Antichrist, who will take control of patch Judaica and force the world to eventually attack Israel in something called The War of God. And this will of course lead to Second Coming of Jesus. So that's a grand plan. Okay, right? Any questions, does it make sense to you guys? I know it's evil, and you know what I could be complete idiot. Okay, I could just make making all this up. But you have to ask yourself three questions, does it connect the past? Does it explain what's happened in the past? Does it explain what's happening today? Happening today, and will these things happen in the future? Okay, so we haven't lived with the future yet, but you can see the trends. Yeah, yeah. Vincent, go ahead.

Speaker 1  34:19  
Like you said that AI, like they will, like, God, create lives and create AI at Jerusalem, but I think like chatgpt, they already create AI in Silicon Valley.

Prof. Jiang  34:34  
Okay, chatgpt is not AI. It's an LLM, okay, like artificial intelligence is a thinking, conscious, sentient force that's like God. So they're trying to create God in Jerusalem, okay, out of someone's temple. Does that make sense? Okay? Any more questions before we go to the BPD, but you guys understand what's happening, right? It Okay, let's, let's go to PPD and again. Guys, it's all just speculation on my part. I have no idea what will happen. Okay, like everyone else, okay, all right, guys, the promised land. This is the Greater Israel project. Okay, this is what Yahweh promised to Abraham in the Bible. As you can see, it's pretty huge. It's entire Middle East extends from the Nile to the Euphrates in Iraq. Okay? It's a huge area. And if you say the Israelites are sorry, the Israelis are when they achieve the Greater Israel project. They call you conspiracy theorists, like, we don't want that, okay, but explain two things to me. First of all, why is the Greater Israel map on a Sharon of an IDF soldier? Okay? These are soldiers, Israeli soldiers, and they wear the insignia of the Greater Israel project. Okay, this is the map. Also, if you look at the flag of Israel. There are two blue lines, right? These represent rivers, the Nile and the Euphrates. All right, so if it's a conspiracy theory, then how do you explain these two things? All right, but I want to argue to you know what paksha deika? It's not about Israel or the Greater Israel project. What it is, ultimately is an alliance of transnational capital, multinationals like Google and meta and intelligence agencies that will be based in Jerusalem. Okay, so secret studies will be based in Jerusalem, and they will use it as a headquarters for their global conspiracy, but and they will profit from chaos and conflict in around the world, because they think that this is the culmination of the prophecy. But it doesn't necessarily mean that Jews will be in charge. It does that make sense, guys? Okay, so it's a much more complicated idea than people think it is. All right, so where do we get this stupid idea from okay, it actually starts with Isaac Newton. So Isaac Newton, you learn about him in physics class. You learn that he's the founder of calculus. You learn about Newtonian mechanics, okay, but actually, these are just side projects of his that was not his. What that was not his focus. He spent most of most of his life, focusing on reading the Bible to understand the grand plan of God. And he wrote a book called observations upon the prophecy of Daniel and the populace of St John. Okay, that's where his focus was. And he believed he found the Bible cold. And he was member of civil societies. He was a member of the British elite. And if someone like Isaac Newton is telling you like this, what the Bible says this guy who found a calculus and who developed the three laws of motion, you'll probably believe him. Okay, but the guy was insane, all right, so what he did was he's looked at certain sections of the Bible and put them together into a story about Okay. And so this is Ezekiel 37 and so Ezekiel 37 says that the Lord God tells the prophet Ezekiel that, yes, I've scattered the people of Israel, but now I bring back together, and then I will make your nation great. I will make flowers bloom. I will make your city prosperous, okay? And this is all in the Bible. Ezekiel 38 says that eventually there'll be a war of Gog and Magog. When Gog and Magog will come invade Israel, but God will come and defend Israel, and he will destroy Gog and Magog. And if you read the Bible. We're not talking read the Bible, but it's really violent language. So the Israelis believe that for heaven to come, the first must be hell on earth. All right, so Newton's plan to force Second Coming, okay? And this becomes the basis of Freemasonry, right? Freemasons really, were really invented in order to promote the second planet coping plan. The Freemasons were first in England. But then where did they go? They went to America. Many of the founding fathers of America, including Benjamin Franklin, George Washington, were Freemasons. So America was founded in many ways to achieve this plan. Okay, so what's the plan? Well, you have to first reconstruct the nation of Israel and make it prosper. Okay, it's really important that becomes very wealthy. And in fact, Israel is one of the wealthiest countries in the world. You have to have the Jewish Diaspora return to Israel. That means you promote prosperity, but you also have to promote a Jewish conspiracy. So while you're letting the Jews get rich in the West, you're also promoting the idea that the Jews control the world. Okay? It's all part of this plan. You have to have rebuilt someone's temple. You have to have the war of Gog and Magog. You have to have the Antichrist. You have the Emma garden, okay? And this will force Jesus to return and usher in the. Indian age. Does that make sense? That's a grand plan. And unfortunately, most of these things have been achieved. Okay? These are the Freemasons and and the top leadership is focused on achieving this plan developed by Newton, eventually will happen is that Adam Weishaupt will found the Illuminati with Jacob Frank, and they will infiltrate Freemasons. And why do the Freemasons allow Adam Weishaupt and the Illuminati to infiltrate the Freemasons? Because Jews are an important part of this plan. They need Jews in place. They need Jews to go back to Jerusalem and build the nation of Israel and conquer the world in order for this plan to work out. Okay? So it is a alliance between the Freemasons and the Illuminati. This is Rothschild, and Rothschild will establish many, many branches throughout Europe. Okay? Jacob Frank, we've discussed in the past, but this is a major Alliance. Okay, all right, once we understand that accused societies and their grand plan in motion, now it helps us understand why things turn out the way they did, for example, now we understand where British philosophy comes from. We discussed last class about John Locke, David Hume, Bentham, mill, Marx, Darwin, okay, these are all thinkers sponsored by Britain to propose, to propose, to promote a certain understanding of world that is materialistic and which will build foundation for the Second Coming Okay, so. John Locke said private property is what's important. David Hume, philosophy is pointless. Don't think about God, just focus on material wealth. Jeremy Bentham, utility is everything. Okay. How do we know what's good, what's right, if it benefits someone? Okay? John Stuart Mill, liberty of the individual is everything. So making sure that people are individually happy, as opposed to being spiritual. Karl Marx, freedom of individual for material want. Charles Darwin, man is a monkey, okay, so this is promoting a certain worldview that will help promote the Second Coming. All right. So look, if you just look at science, there are certain things they study and certain things they don't. Certain things they don't study. For example, they spend a lot of time studying particle physics. Who cares? Can I ask you this question? Who cares about particle physics? They spend billions, trillions of dollars on a stupid thing. They put something called a CERN particle collider to figure out what the underlying atom is okay? Is it really important? Isn't something world poverty more important? I don't know. You can take all that money you spend on sweet collider, make sure everyone in the world has enough to eat. They don't want to do that, though. All right, you also have focus on outer space. AI, okay, so the very direction of science, it's very, very specific, okay? They're trying to achieve a materialist understanding of the world. And also, if you try to, this is the collider, okay, I don't understand why they're spending $2 on a stupid thing. This is the current collider, LXC, in Switzerland, and now they're gonna be build a bigger one, and you see how big it is, right? What are they trying to do here? Are they really trying to figure out particle physics? Maybe, maybe not. All right. All right. Guys, Jacob Frank. What Jacob Frank tells us is there are different dimensions. Okay? And another dimension is big brother, who's a friend of his, but he's stuck in his dimension. He's trying to come to our dimension, but he needs our help. So what certain particle accelerator trying to do? Right? Is it really trying to discover particle physics, or is it really trying to break the dimensions like they did with the nuclear bomb. Do you understand people believe the nuclear bomb is really about creating an interdimensional portal for brick brother to come into. And now people are saying, Is it possible the CERN particle accelerator is trying to bring in these interdimensional demons to our world, to conquer us, to enslave us. That would make a lot more sense than particle physics. Okay, guys,

Prof. Jiang  44:27  
all right. What does that not study? Okay? It doesn't study consciousness, which is an important problem in the world, right? Wouldn't be nice to know how we think, okay? It would be nice to know how I come with the ideas I do in class and teach it to you, and how you respond to my ideas, which have a much more basic problem in particle physics, we don't do that, guys, okay, there's actually no money or very little limited funding in the city of consciousness, imagination, intuition, anything in material spirit, okay, like ghosts or spirits, we don't study at all. You. Uh, religious truth. We don't also don't study kindness, happiness and love, okay? We don't study what is the basis of these things. We don't care. We don't study telepathy, connection. We don't study intelligence of animals and plants. We also don't study ancient architecture and civilizations. So if you go to these ancient sites like go play Tepe, we discussed gobei Tepe before we only have uncovered 5% of it. Okay, we don't care what is underneath Kobe Tepe, because it's possible that if we were to discover everything, we would then it would refute traditional paradigms of the world, including evolution. All right, so, science is focus on spreading one particular paradigm about the world and discounting everything else. So why is that? Okay? Another thing that's really interesting about science is it hasn't really improved in the past 5070, years. We're spending billions, $200 on science, but we haven't really improved science that much, there have been no great discoveries. And there are three, three reasons why, okay, the first is specialization. You only focus. You're only allowed to focus on one very specific problem and well, generalist. Well, without being able to think of science very broadly, it's hard to come up with new discoveries. All right. The other thing is, you have a very strict bureaucracy. So as a scientist, you spend most of your time actually applying for funding. You actually don't spend most of your time trying to solve the problems the universe. The third thing is Credentialism, where if you don't have a certain PhD, you don't belong to a major research university, you're not allowed to talk about science. Okay, so because of these three reasons, it's hard to do science. It's hard to discover truth, and that's the intention. The intention is to prevent people from discovering the truth of the world. Okay, now, science is not very good at creating new things, but it's very good at faking things. Okay? It's very good at faking things also, guys, it's possible we might, they might fake something else called an alien invasion, since it's very good at that, it's not good at creating spaceships, but it's good at faking spaceships. Okay, there's a difference. All right. So this is Thomas Kuhn, and he wrote something called the structure of Santa grove. Scientific Revolutions. And he just says, it's natural for paradigms new ideas to it takes a very long time for paradigms to take shape. But then, if that's the case, how do you explain Einstein the moment he proposed relativity? Boom, he's famous, world famous. Okay, how do you explain Darwin the moment he proposed evolution. Boom. He's world famous. It's really strange, like this way, okay? And so one explanation is civil societies control the world. They have a certain eschatology, and they are promoting things that push their escology forward. And that's how the world works. Okay? So you think, okay, all right. We also discussed last class the idea of Conan speak. We didn't buy this Jew in Britain who becomes the first Jewish Prime Minister, Benjamin desweeli, and it's about how Jews control the world. And we were like, Why is this happening? And I said, because it's part of the plan. Because not only will not only are Jews supposed to prosper in the West, but they're all supposed people are supposed to think that they are part of grand conspiracy, okay? Because the angle is anti semitism and force them to return to Israel. Okay? All right, so with this plan in motion, obviously these cannot themselves come out and propose this plan. The secret societies. Okay? So they have different individuals do this for them. This is Theodore Herzl, who is considered the founder of Zionism. The idea of Zionism is that Jews deserve their own homeland, preferably in Palestine. Okay? Current day Israel. And he wrote a book called the state for the Jews, okay, and it was heavily promoted in 1896 you also have something called the Scofield Bible, okay, which is to take Newton's plan and turn it and and then explain how the Bible and the plan work together, okay? And this is this. This is called premillennial dispensationalism. Okay, don't, don't, don't. Don't worry about the idea. Okay, okay, all right, so 1917 you have, Lord Rothschild, okay. Balfour, the British government is sending a letter to Lord Rothschild saying, I have the pleasure of allowing you to create a homeland for the Jews. Okay, so, again, this part of the plan we. There. The British want to create Israel, but they're blaming the Jews for it. Okay? They say it's the Jews want to create Israel. Okay? So in 1948 they create the nation of Israel. Okay, this is Theodore Herzl, remember? Okay, the nation issue. It is not part of this grand plan. It's, it's what the Jews aspire to. It says what the Jews want. It's all initiated by the Jews. Okay. This is really, really important. Okay, um, now one thing that they say, what the Israelis say, is that we deserve Palestine, because this is what God promised to us in the Bible. We are descendants of the Israelites. We are Hebrew. We're all one blood. Now the great thing about Jews, and this is why I have tremendous respect for Jews, is these Jewish intellectuals, they are first and foremost committed to the truth. So this is Arthur Kessler, okay, who is a Jewish intellectual. He wrote something called the 13th tribe in this book. What he tells us is, this is nonsense, okay? The Jews, most of them, don't come from Israel. They don't come from the Middle East. They come from Ukraine. Okay, and this is called the 13th tribe, and explains how what happened. Okay, so Amber, could you read please? All right, could you read this patch?

Speaker 2  51:38  
Okay, at the beginning of the eighth century, the world was polarized between the two super powers representing Christianity and Islam.

Prof. Jiang  51:47  
So these two powers are the byzant Empire as well as the Abbasid Caliphate.

Speaker 2  51:51  
Okay, their ideological doctrines were welded to power politics pursued by the classical methods of propaganda, subversion and military conquest. The Khazar empire represented a third force which had proved equal to either of them, both as an adversary and an ally, but it could only maintain its independence by accepting neither Christianity nor Islam. For either choice would have automatically subordinated it to the authority of the Roman emperor of the Caliph of Baghdad. So if you understand this idea,

Prof. Jiang  52:23  
it's very simple. You have these three powers in Eurasia. You have the Byzantines and you have the opposites. Okay, Byzantines are Christian, the opposites are Muslim, and these are the two dominant religions. And the kazars think they're our power. And if they convert to point of the pagan. If they convert to Christianity, they now have to obey Byzantine they obey. If they convert to Islam, they not obey the opposites. They don't do either. Okay, so they pay another religion, which is Judaism, right? And it makes sense, because Judaism is the first religion. It is from Judaism, in which you have Islam as well as Christianity, and therefore Judaism is superior, and therefore we Khazars are superior. Okay, so this makes perfect sense, right?

Speaker 2  53:10  
Keep on going. There had been no lack of efforts by either court to convert Khazars to Christianity or Islam, but all they resulted in was the exchange of diplomatic courtesies, dynamic inter marriages and shifting military alliances based on mutual self interest, relying on its military strength, the Khazar kingdom, with its hinterland of vassal tribes, was determined to preserve its position as the third force, leader of the uncommitted nations, of the steps.

Prof. Jiang  53:41  
So the kazo Empire is very ambitious as well. Okay, it sees itself as a great power, eventually wants to unite the different tribes of step nations and conquer the world. But to do that, it needs its own distinct identity. So it's not going to convert to Christianity or Islam, right? Keep on going

Speaker 2  53:59  
at the same time, their intimate contacts with the Byzantium and the caliphate had taught the Khazars at their primitive shamanism was not only barbaric and outdated compared to the great monotheistic creeds, but also unable to confer on the leaderships the spiritual and legal authority which the rulers of the two theocratic world powers the caliph and the Emperor enjoyed. Yet the conversion to either creed would have meant submission, the end of independence, and thus would have defeated its purpose. What could have been more logical than to embrace a third creed which was uncommitted towards either of the two, yet represented of the venerable foundation of both.

Prof. Jiang  54:40  
Yeah, okay. This is very simple idea. Monotheism is very important, because negative one God gives ultimate authority to one person, which allows for for the creation of empire, right? Otherwise, every god is equal, and you have, like, a lot of gods, so it's important to have one God. You have three religions that some. One God. You have Islam, which is doing very well. You have Christianity, which is doing really well. You have Judaism, and no one's practicing today Judaism. So let's just take it for ourselves. Really simple. Okay, so this was a mass conversion of an entire people to Judaism. Okay, does that make sense? All right? And so this will this what the map looks like. As you can see, it's huge area. This is Ukraine, okay, modern day Ukraine, the Kazar empire. Then you have you have the Byzantines, and you have the Abbasids. And the Kaiser saw themselves as equal to both. They want to maintain a separate identity, okay, they don't want to be consumed by either empire, okay? And this is another map that shows kazera, kazaria, okay? And then, yep, all right, can you hear about your reading the only Mercy,

Speaker 2  55:55  
the only mercy shown by history to those who took to flight or were driven to it was the existence of Khazaria both before and after the conversion. Okay, so it

Prof. Jiang  56:04  
doesn't make sense. So Jews are being persecuted in Europe all the time. They have no place to go except kazaria, which is now the Jewish homeland. And the Jews know about about kazaria Because they're traders, they're merchants, they're part of the diaspora. So information is spreading about Khazaria, and they all go there, and these Jews are heavily intellectual, and they so they bring their cultural practices to cazaria. Also, we discussed this before, what is a Jewish person? A Jewish person is not someone who is born Jewish. A Jewish person is someone who reads the Bible and accepts a cultural practice of the Jews. And therefore it's really easy to become a Jew come on going

Speaker 2  56:42  
before it was a refugee Haven after it became a kind of national home, the refugees were products of a superior culture, and were, no doubt, an important factor in creating that cosmopolitan, tolerant outlook which so impressed the Arab chroniclers quoted before their influence, and no doubt, their pro sleep, hospitalizing, proselytizing zeal. This was an age when convert converting unbelievers by force or persuasion was the foremost concern that the Jews, too indulged in. It is shown by the fact that since the rule of Byzantine law threatened severe punishments for the attempt to convert Christians to Judaism, while for Jews molesting converts to Christianity, the penalty was death by fire. Sharp P 25 would have made itself felt first and foremost at the court and among leading notables, they may have combined in their missionary efforts theological arguments and Masonic prophecies with a shrewd assignment of the political advantages the Khazars would derive from adopting a neutral religion. The exiles also brought with them Byzantine arts and crafts, superior methods in agriculture and trade and the square Hebrew alphabet.

Prof. Jiang  58:02  
So not only did the Khazars wanted their own religion that was distinct from Byzantines and the Abbasids, but they also wanted the skills, the knowledge, the culture, the science, the medicine that the Jews would bring with them. Okay, so this marriage made perfect sense. Okay, so from logic perspective, this makes complete sense. Unfortunately, you're not allowed to discuss this, okay? Because it's embarrassing for the nation of Israel. You're not, not saying this isn't this is not what happened, because there's all evidence to just this is what happened. They're saying you're not allowed to discuss this, okay? All right, can you keep on reading ethically the Azmain tribes?

Speaker 2  58:47  
Ethically the Semitic tribes on the water. Sorry.

Prof. Jiang  58:50  
So, okay, so Kazarian is around for a long time, a few centuries, but then eventually they become conquered by the Mongols. The Mongols are ferocious. They're killing a lot of people, so these kazarians have no choice but to immigrate over to East Asia, sorry, to Eastern Europe. Okay, and then they become the European Jews, all right. And so what Kessler is going to do is he's gonna show evidence to suggest that they all came from one place, all these different European, European Jews, they have similar cultural practices, which means they originate from a similar place. Okay, you keep on going ethnically.

Speaker 2  59:24  
Ethnically the Semitic tribes on the waters of the Jordan and the Turco Khazar tribes on the Volga were, of course, miles apart, but they had at least two important formative factors in common. Each lived at a focal junction where the great trade routes connecting east and west, north and south, intersect a circumstance which predisposed them to become nations of traders, of enterprising travelers or rootless cosmopolitans, as hostile propaganda has unaffectionately labeled them, but at the same time, their exclusive religion fostered a tendency to keep themselves in. Stick together to establish their own communities, with their own places of worship, schools, residential quarters and ghettos originally self imposed in whatever town or country they settled. This were a combination of wanderlust and ghetto mentality reinforced by messianic hopes and chosen race pride, both ancient Israelites and medieval Khazars shared, even though the latter trace their descendant not to Shem but to Japheth.

Prof. Jiang  1:00:29  
So genetically speaking, the khazarians and the Israelites have nothing in common, okay, but they see us in the culture, and that's who we ultimately are. We're products of culture, as opposed to genes, okay, these are Karaites in the Caribbean. They in basically Ukraine, okay? And as you can see, they're Jews, and they practice the Kazarian version of Judaism, okay, the first impression Okay, the

Speaker 2  1:01:03  
first impression one gains is a striking similarity between certain privileges, privileged positions held by Khazar Jews in Hungary and in Poland in those early days, both the Hungarian and polish sources refer to Jews employed as mint masters, mint masters, administrators of the Royal revenue, controllers of the salt monopoly, tax collectors and moneylenders, ie bankers. This parallel suggests a common origin of those two immigrant communities, and as we can trace the origins of the bulk of Hungarian Jewry to the Magyar Khazar Nexus. The conclusion

Prof. Jiang  1:01:44  
seems self evident. Okay, all right, thank you. Thank you. All right, so does this make sense? Okay, there's a lot of evidence to suggest, like the Khazars were Jews, and this is important understand, because guess what? The Khazar Jews, they will take over Europe. Okay, and you have three different types of Jews. You have the Sephardic Jews, which basically the Jews who were expelled from Spain, okay, these are real Jews. You have the Mazarin Mazarin Jews who were in the Islamic world. Again, these are real Jews. The blue these Azmain, they're not real Jews. They're converted. Okay, there's something you're not you're not to discuss at all, even though the evidence is so stark. The other issue with the azkenazi is that they make up 80% of all Jews in the world today. Okay? And so you go to issue, and they say, it's like we were here, because this is what God promised to us. That's nonsense. But again, you don't have to discuss this, even though, again, the evidence is stark. All right, all right. So this conspiracy also, again, explain the JFK assassination, okay, as well as so this is the book King kill. You can read it online for yourself. It's by downer and Hoffman. It goes into what the Freemasons will want to kill. JFK, the sort of ritual sacrifice ideas behind, behind it, okay, 911 All right. Why did 911 happen? Because it's all part of this grand plan. Now, lemon happened because America needed to go to Middle East and destroy the Middle East to create Pax Judaica. And that's exactly what they did again. Al Qaeda is Yes, I understand. Al Qaeda did 911 but then why did you have to go destroy Libya. Why does it go destroy Afghanistan and Iraq and Syria? Okay, so, and the last place that they need to destroy is Iran in order to achieve the pakistanica project. Okay? ISIS, guys. ISIS is, you know these fanatical Muslims and they hate Israel, but they never attacked Israel. Okay? They've never in their history attacked Israel. That's why they're probably controlled by Mossad, okay? And these guys go around and destroy the entire Middle East, but they never attacked Israel. Really strange how this happens, okay, and the and all this war on terror, what it does is it creates all these millions of migrants to Europe, which is destabilizing European society. And these societies. Look, Libya was once a middle class, prosperous society, and now you have these slave markets. You got these millions of Africans who are sort of slaves in Libya. It is an anarchy now. Okay, so 2015 you have all these immigrants going to Europe, and the Europeans like, we don't want these immigrants, because what are we gonna do with these immigrants? They're poor. We don't have the. Money. We don't have the system in order to accommodate these immigrants. And Angela Merkel, who is the leader of Europe at this time, the German chancellor, she says, We can do this, guys, we can do this. And it was a it has become a dumpster fire, okay? And like guys in 2015 everyone knew this was gonna happen. Everyone knew that you brought in millions of immigrants who did not speak English, who did not share European cultural values, and who didn't have much education. This would happen. Okay, Europeans are not as open as the Americans are okay. And even these immigrants are causing problems in America, right? And, and at no point did Europeans say, Screw you America. You did this to us. At no point okay. And, and you could argue like, okay, maybe it's bureaucratic incompetence, but the same time it's all it could also be part of the grand plan to create Jack's Pasha Degas. This is October 7 when Hamas went and killed a lot of Israel's Israelis. And if this, of course, led to what's happening in Gaza today. Okay? And what's happening in Gaza today led to all these protests for Palestine around the world, and a surge in anti semitism. And this surge in anti semitism will ultimately lead to killings around the world. So this is Bonnie beach in Sydney, Australia, where you have, if you read the news, two Islamic State supporters killed 15 Jews celebrating a Jewish festival in Bonnie beach. And quite honestly, we can expect more of the more of this to happen in the future. And you can say this is all just an accident. Or you can say, well, you know, it's part of the plan, guys. Okay, these are the red heifers. And these red heifers were spent. People spend millions of dollars to generally create perfect red heifers, because nature doesn't produce perfect red heifers. And what people say? The rumor is that these red heifers have been sacrificed already, so now they're getting ready to rebuild Solomon's temple, which will be the site of the World Government. Okay? PAC Judaica, let's go to Silicon Valley. Okay? Bill Gates, Mark Zuckerberg, Jeff Bezos, Elon Musk, how to become billionaires guys, I don't think they're smarter than us. In fact, I don't think that that's smart, okay, Steve Jobs is a smart guy. I will say Steve Jobs is a really smart guy, but these other guys are pretty normal guys. How to become billionaires, all right. So Silicon Valley people say that Silicon Valley is a hotbed of innovation. That is complete and utter nonsense. The hotbed of innovation is the American military, because they spent billions of dollars on innovation. Okay? So these are computers they developed for war purposes, okay? For the nuclear bomb to fight World War Two, to fight the Cold War. They spent billions of dollars to develop this technology, and then what happened was this technology became smaller and smaller, and so much smaller that Steve Wozniak was able to take this technology and create their own personal computer. Now this is kind of strange, because this R and D was funded by the American government. How did this one guy, Steve Wozniak. How was he able to take all this knowledge and then go and make his own computer? What did the American military led him? In fact, what's really strange is that while Steve Wozniak was building his own computer, which will become the Apple Computer, he was working for Hewlett Packard. In other words, everything he did should have been the IP of Hewlett Packard. And in fact, Steve Wozniak said to his boss, Listen, you guys pay me. You guys train me. If you want this PC that I'm going to create, I'm happy to give it to you. And Hewlett Packard said to him, No, keep it for yourself. That's really strange, guys. What Corporation is so generous? Why would they do that? Well, there are three good reasons. Okay, the first reason is that if the American military were to promote personal computers, every American in the world would say, Screw you. Okay, you guys are the military. You guys are responsible for Vietnam War. You guys are responsible for millions of deaths around the world. Why would I take a computer from you, knowing that it's from the military, you need a computer to spy on me, man, you're gonna use this computer to turn me into a robot. There's no touch this computer, but it's coming from Steve Jobs. That's different, right? Oh, Steve Jobs, he's a visionary. He's messianic, of course, I'll buy this personal computer from Steve Jobs, okay? Second is, at this time in history, America is at war with Soviet Union. Okay, which system is better, communism or capitalism? And so you want so if you said that, okay, we're the government, and we spend billions of dollars to build this technology that proves communism is better, right? But it's like, no, no, no, it's these guys working by themselves in Silicon Valley, in the garage. They get all these ideas for themselves that proves capitalism is better, okay? That proves entrepreneurship is better. Now last reason, and this is most important, is if the US government built this knowledge, right? It belongs to American people. So how do you monetize public knowledge when you create private companies controlled by secret societies? That makes perfect sense, right? And we can now understand all these guys, Bill Gates, Elon Musk, they're front people. They're just post aboard. They're not wheeling command. It's these two societies that's wheeling control.

Prof. Jiang  1:11:05  
Okay, sorry, all right. Another example is Google. So the American military spent billions of dollars, trillion dollars of taxpayer money, to build this fiber optic network, which the base of the of the internet. Okay, with this type of optic network, you couldn't have the internet. And then these two guys in their 20s took over this network and quit Google. It's the same thing as you know, the government spends billions of dollars building a highway, okay? And then you come on and says, I'm gonna build a toll booth. Same thing. Where were they allowed to do that? But not only that, but now they're slowly building their own underwater fiber optic network. So they're basically prioritizing this network created by the American military. Yes, I understand they're spending their own money to build this network, but it's American military that spent taxpayer, taxpayer money to build to do the R and D for all this, okay, that's where the real value is. Mark Zuckerberg guys, look, look, he's not that smart, okay. And look, the other thing is, he was 19 years old. He stole this idea from his Harvard classmates, and he got billions of dollars from venture capitalist to to start Facebook. Where did he get this money? Facebook is not a great idea, right? Social media, great. But I mean, like, I could also start a social media company. You could start a social media company. The other thing is, like, Yahoo, at one point, offered this guy a billion dollars to buy Facebook. We'll give you a billion dollars. That's money, right? You would have taken, I was taking it. But market circuit was like, Nah, I wouldn't know what. I would know what to do with the money. That's retarded. Why don't you start Facebook in the first place and put to make money? Okay, so you have these three questions. First of all, why are these people giving him money? He's an 18 year old guy. It's a Harvard dropout. That's all. He is. No experience, nothing. Second question is, if you're someone who's that young, yet in you succeed so much, you would suffer from hubris, from ego. You make a lot of mistakes, right? The guy's never failed in his life. The third thing, of course, is, I understand why Amazon, Google and Apple are successful, okay? Apple has Steve Jobs. Google controls the world search. Amazon controls buying things, right? What does Facebook do? Does it do anything, right? So how can I explain why Mark Zuckerberg is so successful? Well, there's actually an explanation this guys, okay, it's all part of a it's possible. Okay, I'm not saying it is true, but it's all part of the grand conspiracy to create an AI surveillance state, which is, which is what Pax udkat Is this guy? Okay, they look exactly the same. They are the same. They look like clones of each other, no personality, no ideas of their own. This is robots. How do they become so successful, right? And Almanac, guess what? Guys makes no money at the same time, they get trillion dollars from investors to build data centers, okay? And these data centers allow you to make really nice pictures and videos online that do nothing. Okay, why are all Why is all this money being spent except one day to create a surveillance state? Okay, that's what makes sense. The idea that these things exist so that you can play on the computer. Makes no sense. But these things exist in order to one day, how can we control over what you do, what you think and how you behave? That makes sense now. Okay. Pax Judaica, all right. Alan musk, okay, yeah, I understand millions of people worship this guy. I don't know how this guy makes money. Okay? If you look at. Tesla and Facebook, and you came in and says, Listen, there are these two companies, Facebook and Tesla. Would you invest in them? I'd be like, no Facebook. There's no business model here. I don't understand why people need social media. I don't understand how Mark Zuckerberg, how he's gonna make money in the future. Elon Musk, he gets all his money from government subsidies. Tesla doesn't make any money, man, and the guy's a moron, okay, but neuralink, okay. Why is he proposing neuralink? It's part of transhumanism, right? All right. So Jacob Frank, guys, all right. All everything goes back to Jaco Frank. What does Jacob Frank believe? He believes that what matters is, at the end of the world, is the spirit becomes flesh. You understand, the spirit becomes flesh. What matters is not the mind. What matters is matter. Second thing he says is, listen your laws. Tell me to fast to suffer. I don't want that crap. I want to enjoy my life. Okay? And the third thing is, this world cannot have been created by God. It was created by Satan. Because why would God allow us to die? Therefore, we must defy Satan by living forever. Okay? Now if we understand Frank, we understand the idea of transhumanism, okay? This is a guy with his own bionic eye that records things. This is a guy with his own arm. This is a new trend in the future. What is transhumanism, the capacity to live forever, okay, all right, so this is the future that we're looking at. If you're a rich person, if you're a powerful person, this, this is what you will experience. You will experience longevity, health and beauty, okay, you will have organ transplants that keep you young. You will have stem cell therapy to repair any cancer, any diseases you have, gene therapy, you have blood transfusion. You have replacement bodies, okay, you will be 20 years old forever. You have great sex. You'll live forever, okay, this is if you are a billionaire, everyone else, uh, oh, well, first of all, you become a cyborg, where you are now specialized for certain function. Okay? They're gonna put microchips in your body so you can become a better accountant. Okay? They'll turn your arms into cyborg, bionic arms, so you can be better constructor. Who knows? Okay, microchips inside of you the mark of the beast. What does microchips do? They are digital ID and digital currency. And guess what? Guys, if you're not happy, they'll know about it, and they'll give and they'll give you drugs to make you happy. You think this won't happen. They've already have everything in place, okay, addictive jobs in control mood. Oh, and like, if you're lonely, don't worry, man, that's what AI is for. You have an AI girlfriend and boyfriend, and you know what? Most people would prefer an AI boyfriend and girlfriend, okay, okay, and then it'll be an individual matrix where you live in your own world. So be a World of Warcraft, but in the real world, okay, where everyone who's your friend, your entire family, it's all just AI generated. Okay, you live in a perfect world. Okay, guys, now let's look at how Pax you take a profit. What? How they control the world? Well, AI surveillance systems and AI data centers, Israel will become a leader on that. Okay? Because for data centers to be effective, they need to be safe everywhere else. There's so many wars, right? Not Israel, because Israel has nuclear weapons, so all the major technology companies will be based in Israel in the future. Weaponry, security, private militias to protect you if you're at war, bioweapons, about warfare, psychological information warfare issue is really good at that. Intelligence, espionage and sabotage. Most ad is the world's best intelligence agency financing, okay, so if you wanna go to war, you'll be financed by the Israelis trade access, transhumanism for the global elite, okay, this is how in the future, they will control the world. Does that make sense? All right, but we don't know how much of the world will last because something called the manic pole excursion, and this will usher in something called the mini ice age. Okay, so maybe God is unhappy with Pax Judaica. Maybe we know no one can defeat Pax judica except God Himself. And maybe, maybe God will intervene, but not in the way that it says in the Bible. Okay, we don't know. It is all speculation. Believe whatever you want. Okay, so any questions, does it make sense to you guys? Pax Judaica, welcome to the future. Okay, all right, let me go over some substack. So I'm. I want to thank the founding members of my sub stack, because they're extremely generous, and they've left some questions and comments, and so I will answer them now. Okay, so could you help me, Amber, by reading the questions so I can rest a bit?

Speaker 2  1:20:16  
Okay, dear professor, Jiang, I am an avid viewer of all your lectures on YouTube and your content on substack. And I want to say a huge thank you for the incredibly important content you are sharing with the with humanity. I'm a 27 year old Jew living in Israel. I oppose any Zionist idea and any nation state whatsoever, including Israel and including Palestine, I would like to know whether you think it is advisable for the younger generation of Jews, both those living in Israel and those who do not to live in Israel. On the one hand, anti semitism is likely to increase the diaspora, yeah, diaspora? Which will diaspora? Which will lead many Jews to think that Israel is the safest place for us, and the chain of events that are likely to unfold will cause Jews to believe that the Messiah is just around the corner. On the other hand, we are heading towards living here in a technocratic ghetto of surveillance, digital ID systems and so on. I'm sure that many sane Jews who simply want to live in peace, regardless of religion or race, follow you your wonderful work, and would like to know what you think is the right course of action for us. I don't know whether this question is priority for you to address in a video, and it's completely understandable if you choose not to share it, but even a written response from you would be more than enough. Thank you very much.

Prof. Jiang  1:21:38  
Okay, so thank you, Daniel, for your comment. Listen, I think pashuka is not about the Jews. It's about these evil people want to control the world, and they want to use Jews and Israel as a tool to do so, and a lot of Jews recognize this fact. A lot of Jews recognize that traditionally, they've been used by empires in the past. And this is a great question, and I'll say sort of, I'll say certain things. The first thing is that I believe that the people who are most who will be most resistant to pastor Erica, the people who stand up and fight pastor Jaka, will actually be Jews themselves. Jews have have a great tradition of being on the front lines of resistance for justice, for humanity, for all that is good in the world. So I believe that Jews will play very important part in the resistance against Pax Judaica. Second thing that I will say is that things look dark, but what we've learned this semester are three things, okay? The first is that evil must triumph so that good may rise. There must be total darkness for the light to shine, and all hope must end so that we can become hope ourselves. Okay, so please remember that there's a right spark in us when all hope seems lost, that spark will remind you of who you are, and it will lead you into the light. Okay, so I don't have specific instructions or ideas on how to counter Pax Judaica, but I think that being aware of paxideca and being aware that we individually have the capacity to resist is fundamental to what is to come. Okay, so thanks to Daniel for the question, okay, all right. This is from Kevin Zhou Azmain Amber.

Speaker 2  1:23:34  
I first want to thank whatever gave you the courage to continue past tribulations, maybe Mrs. Xiang and continuing to teach, your will and dedication to learning and teaching is monumental compared to the attention spans of newer generations. I think I speak for most of us who watch, but you have definitely made a historical impact on us. It seems, transnational capitalism, frankism, has weaved its web for hundreds of years, turning into the monster it is today. What are humanity's possible counters? Do you think it is religion? Will we ever make a cyclic turn away from capitalism? How long would it take to undo this movement? Thank you never spot.

Prof. Jiang  1:24:13  
Okay, so you're absolutely right. Okay, so thank again. Thank you for this question. Okay, the Frank is, I spent centuries preparing for today, and that's why they win, because they're willing to think long term. They're willing to work together, they're willing to make necessary sacrifices to achieve heaven on earth in their eyes. Okay? And so we need to, if you want to defeat them, you need to become like that, okay? You need to think long term. You need to, like, understand you haven't you need to make sacrifices. Okay? It's just, it's something that you cannot defeat in one day or 10 years or 100 years. If you have to like, believe in yourself, you have to believe in humanity. You have to respond by working hard or micro sacrifices. Okay, by learning all right. So that's the only way. Forward. Also, what we also know is that when empires come into being, that's when they end. Okay, so the moment paschida comes into being, it has to end, because paschida becomes arrogant, it becomes obvious, it becomes narrow minded, becomes insular, okay? And so paschimaca will fall. We don't know how long Patricia count will last. May it won't it may not even last that long. Okay, maybe 10 years. 20 years. Who knows? Okay, but it's a very unstable system. So what we need to do is look ahead and think about what humanity looks like after past Judaica also, I hate to say this, but it looks like the world is about to end wars everywhere, destruction everywhere. Maybe 9% of humanity gets wiped out. Okay? So we need to face the SPAC and prepare for what the future looks like after the great flood that is coming. Okay? And we have to use our imagination. And later on, as I continue my teaching, I will propose different scenarios, different solutions, okay, but this is a long term project. Spent a lot of spent a lot of time conceptualizing how to conquer the world. We have to imagine how we can rebuild the world together. All right, this is from Wow, and could do

Speaker 2  1:26:21  
you speak a lot about the monad and Gnostic teachings. Do you see this as a possible emerging major religion? Can it be? It seems like these mass expansion like the Bronze Age Muslim conquest and implosions like the Bronze Age collapse and the French Revolution that repeat throughout history are almost the way civilization matures for those who who participate the same way a person grows from facing the overcoming trauma are societies to participate in a collapse and come out the other side, better off for it. Lastly, who are your favorite English language poets apart from Milton?

Prof. Jiang  1:26:57  
Okay, I'll answer the last question. First, I was English major at Yale. Okay, so I know about English poetry. Milton is definitely my favorite poet. Then you have John Keats. William Shakespeare is also really good. Okay, societies rise and fall so that there can be creativity in the world. Okay, it sucks if a society lasts for a long, long time. We know because we're in China, okay? Societies are meant to rise and fall so that new societies may rise and fall as well. Parents must die so that children can be independent. Okay, it's so I understand death, destruction, war. These are terrible concepts, but they're all but they're all part and parcel of the human experience. We should stop seeing them as negative things and just as things that happen to us. We should respond accordingly. Okay, so if you think about the Bronze Age collapse, yes, it was a terrible event, but it led to the founding of Israel. It led to the Greeks. It led to the rise of Persia. And these three different civilizations were pairs of tremendous creativity in the human experience. And it seems as though we've come to the end of a cycle. Okay? So even though there's destruction, destruction will mean rebirth. Even though there is stagnation, stagnation will lead to creativity. It's all part of a cycle, okay, the human experience is one that is extremely dynamic, extremely resilient. So even though there's death, death always leads to life.

Speaker 1  1:28:38  
Okay, all right. This is from Denny

Speaker 2  1:28:41  
professor, you have a remarkable way of synthesizing the best parts of spiritual practice while mitigating the worst parts dogma, lack of critical thought. Was there a moment in life where you had your spiritual epiphany? I imagine Dante's Inferno helped.

Prof. Jiang  1:28:56  
Okay? So I think that my superpower has always been my capacity for self reflection. Ever since I was young, I've been able to stare in the mirror and look at who I am and said, This is why I am. This is what I like about myself. This is what I don't like myself. So I'm constantly in a process of self reflection and self rejuvenation and self invention. Okay, I've done it all my life. Okay? So I was a poor immigrant in Toronto. I was bullied a lot when I was young. I didn't like that, so I worked hard gotten to Yale, and then I, after I got from Yale, I thought that I was succeeding in this world. I didn't succeed. So I looked at myself in the mirror, and I recognized that there were limitations to my Yale education. I changed that. Okay? I started to reinvent myself. I did a lot of things that were experimental, but which I am forever thankful for. For example, I did stand up comedy for a time. I did skydiving, I did parkour. So I am constantly in the process of self exploration. Some. Of reflection and self reinvention, which is what leads to creativity. Okay? So I would say, there's a particular moment when my life changed. I would say, like, Oh, I've always been like that. Okay? Five years from now, I'll probably not be I'll probably be a different person from I am today. I'm not content with just being who I am. I'm constantly looking to improve myself, and that means constantly engaging in a process of self reflection, but that means also engaging a process of self doubt and sometimes even self hatred. Okay? So even though, you know, like online, I'm famous and people appreciate my teaching, I don't really care about these things. Okay? For me, what's important is, am I improving? Am I being creative? Am I contributing to the progress of humanity? These are the questions that animate me. I love Dante, by the way, what should be Dante? And next semester, I'm teaching great books, and we'll spend our time on Dante. Okay, all right, keep on reading.

Speaker 2  1:30:59  
Hi Professor. I've always loved history, and it's been a blessing finding you your teachings. I wish I had a class like this in school. Growing up with a Zionist mother, from that perspective, I thought what she spoke of would never really happen. I try to help combat Zionism and those oppressed, but it feels hopeless. Do you think there is any possibility to change or stop what is currently happening, or has Zionism embedded into many aspects of society?

Prof. Jiang  1:31:24  
Okay? Zionism says one out, because the people who believe in Zionism are the ones who are willing to most sacrifices, the ones who are the most energetic, who are willing to work together to achieve this vision. So an example is, if you look at all these wealthy societies in the world, there's only one wealthy society that has a fertility fertility rate above replacement level, and that's Israel. Okay? It's above two, possibly three. Every other nation is like one or 1.5 okay. So it shows us that regardless of how we feel about Israel and Zionism, people in Israel love being Israeli, and they want a better future for the nation, and they believe in a better future for the nation. Young people making the sacrifice necessary to have a family shows you the health, vitality and energy of a nation, okay, but at the same time, and I keep on saying this, when Zionism has become an empire, when it become Paju, that's when it will fall, very quickly. And I also believe that a lot of Jews, a lot of Israelis, don't want an empire. They just want to live normal lives. And the fact that they come ascend to the world, the fact that they're causing all this war chaos conflict around the world benefit from a lot of a lot of going to rebel. Okay? So I can imagine that once paxia, it comes into being, they're even a massive civil war throughout Israel. Okay, Dan,

Speaker 2  1:32:55  
what is your favorite food? And what can we expect or not between semesters and over the break time. Thank you for all the great lectures this semester.

Prof. Jiang  1:33:03  
Okay, my favorite food is Japanese. I love sashimi. But I also just love food in general. I'm Cantonese, so I just love eating in general. They say that Cantonese people live to eat, okay, not, certainly true for me. Okay, so after this class, I go on a two week break, and then and I come back to teach two classes, game theory and geopolitics. So we'll be looking what we doing is looking at current events and using game theory to understand how and why they're happening. Okay, so we'll be looking at things like Venezuela, Iran, Israel, okay, so that'll be a fun class. I'll also be teaching a great book, so we look at Dante, Homer, Plato, Shakespeare, Milton, okay, um, so two weeks, there'll be two week break, but generally, we start two new classes, and they'll be fun to be interesting. I hope that you enjoy them. Okay, all right. This is from Oz.

Speaker 2  1:34:05  
It's been a pleasure to read and listen to your work. The education and contextual framing is super interesting. I am especially inspired by the original works. You quoted a U quote which illustrates how well read you are. I'm sure you have already heard this, so I'm hoping that writing a book is already on your radar. Half of the work works is done and you have a proven audience. Start with putting all your transcripts and essays into AI with some guidance, and ask it to create a book. Then you can, you can iterate. All you will need beyond that is perfecting citations and ensuring there are no errors. But that wouldn't that won't change the messages you have brought to life.

Prof. Jiang  1:34:44  
Okay, so thanks, oz for the encouragement. I am planning to write a book. Okay, now I've written many books in the past. Before I published two books, so I know the book writing process of an agent, so it won't be hard for me to publish a book. And. Has all says, I do have an audience. I do have a global audience, 10s of 1000s, who would love to read the book, but I want to create the best book possible. So that requires meditation, that requires discussion, that requires experimentation. So I understand the book writing process and the way I write books is different from how others write books. Okay, I have lots of writer friends. They're extremely successful. I can't do what they do. I mean, they spend like, 10 hours a day writing books. I am much more imaginative. I'm much more intuitive. I like to take long, watch it, long walks in the park, and just play on ideas. Okay, so I will write a book. I am very efficient. When I set a goal. I do, I go and do it, but I want, I want to write the best book possible for everyone. I see my I see myself first and foremost as a writer. Most people see me as a teacher, but I'm first and foremost a writer, and so I want to take tremendous pride and whatever I produce. I want this book, no matter what I write, to stand the test of time. I want people to read it 100 years from now. Okay, I love reading books. I love books. Books, to me, are just as alive as people. When I read books, what makes me, what, what? What makes me distinct as a reader is when I read books, I'm able to perceive or go into the soul of the person, okay, that's why I know Jacob Frank so much. When I read Jacob Frank, I'm like, I understand how he thinks, Okay. I'm not judging him, okay. He's an evil guy, but I'm not judging him, okay. But I know how he thinks. I know how he feels. I know what he's doing, what he's doing, and that's what allows me tremendous insight into history, and that's why I'm able to create really interesting content for everyone. So I love reading. I love writing. If I'm going to produce a book, if I write a book, I want it to send the test of time. I want people to read it and be forever changed by it. Okay, all right, so that is it. Thank you so much, guys. Next semester we start game theory and geopolitics. Okay? You.

