Prof. Jiang  0:01  
Today, we discuss the idea of capital. Now you may have learned an economics class that a capital means money or wealth. What I want to argue to you today is that capital is really a mechanism to extract energy from you. Okay? And what's important to understand is that in a universe where consciousness is the universe, then what energy is ultimately is attention and focus you. It.

Prof. Jiang  0:44  
Okay? So it's not enough for you to work at something. You also have to concentrate on it in order for capital to extract energy from you. Okay, all right. So with this in mind, let's discuss an example. All right, so the most basic example is you have a landlord class, and they're trying to extract energy from the peasant class, okay? Now, before, traditionally, we're going to show energy as maybe grain, okay, grain capital. But the problem with this is you're actually not that, not that extracting that much energy from a peasant, because it's not that hard to grow grain, also, grain can be stored. So in other words, as a landlord, your priority is not necessarily just to extract rent from the peasant. Your priority is somehow to get the peasant to focus entirely on the task at hand, and to do that, over the centuries, landlords have figured out certain ways or certain mechanisms in order to extract the most value from the peasant class. Okay, so let's discuss the mechanisms. The first is that we've transitioned from slavery to freedom. Okay? If you really want to extract value, if you really don't extract energy, attention and focus, it's much better to give peasants the illusion of freedom rather than just enslave them. Okay, so give peasants the belief that they have control over their lives. Another state freedom is equity, right? Equity? So think of a company where I might give you some equity, and then you work a lot harder because you think you can more, make more money. So this is a first trick that we've learned over the centuries. The second trick is to make capital more abstract. Okay, so the abstraction of capital, so let's use an example. Okay, grain was initially capital. The problem with grain is that you only need so much. So as a peasant, you only want to work as much as necessary in order to grow grain to feed your family and maybe a little bit more to save. But most of the time, you just want to enjoy your life. But then we transition to gold, right? And gold? Yeah, people are more greedy, but problem of gold is there's only a finite amount of it, all right? It's hard to locate, so only a minority would expend all their energy trying to locate gold. And now what we've done is we've transitioned to the idea of money, as I will show you, the great innovation of the past 100 years is to convince people that money is God. Money is both nothing and everything, and so you can spend your entire life dedicated to achieving money. Okay? So that's the second great innovation. And the third great technique that's changed economics is to understand that if you really want people to focus their energies, you need to create anxiety in them. Okay, anxiety. And how do you create anxiety? Well, the best way is to create the idea. Of debt, right? So I'll lend you a million dollars today, and you enjoy it, but now you have to spend the rest of time paying it back. The problem with this, of course, is that there's interest, and so you can never really pay it back, which is anxiety. And so the idea of debt, I can extract much more value then from you than if you were not in debt. Okay, that's the first tool. Second is the idea of inequality and poverty, where a certain class of people are poor and they'll always be poor, and that incentivizes, encourages middle class to work even harder, all right, the third mechanism of anxiety is wealth destruction. What is wealth destruction? Simple, war or depression, right? When the economy collapses, when all your wealth vanishes. The idea here is, Listen, if the peasants work really hard and they store up a lot of grain, they have a huge greenery, they really don't have to work anymore, right? So as a landlord, what do you do? We go burn down the greenery. All right? So war is not just a mechanism to expand capitalism, but it's also a way to make people more anxious, because you destroyed their wealth, and therefore they have to work a lot harder. So again, in academics class, you may thought that the point of capitalism is to accumulate more capital. No, no, no, guys, the point of capitalism is to focus the energies of the peasants, okay? Because the attention, the focus is what makes society much more energetic, and that's the end goal, all right, so if society is wealthy, that's actually a good thing, because it makes people lazy and complacent. And so the way to resolve this issue is by constantly engaging in wars and by having the boom bust cycle that you might learn in economics class, right? So an economics you might learn that the boom bust cycle is natural to capitalism. It is not natural to capitalism. It is artificial. The people in charge artificially destroy economies, to destroy wealth, to make the peasants work a lot harder. So are you following along? So that's the strategy that we've learned these past few centuries, and that's why, in today's society, we are the wealthiest society ever in human history, and yet at the same time, we are the most miserable, we are the most anxious and we are the most in debt. Okay, because the landlord class, the capitalist the elite, what they figured out are three mechanisms in which to extract as much energy from us as possible. First is to give us the illusion that we have freedom our lives. We have the freedom of choice, that with equity society. We can vote for our leaders, when in reality, it's all just an illusion. Second is to make money. God, the end all and be all, both nothing and everything, the very focus of your life, and because money is so abstract, you can spend your entire life trying to achieve more and more of it, yet at the same time, achieve nothing and nothing. Okay, so think of like someone like Jack Ma, who has, like, more money than can he possibly spend. What does he want? He wants more money. Okay? And the third is to create anxiety in society so that people's entire existence is one of stress, and as a result, people are much more focused on work and wealth creation, and you do that by a constant process of wealth destruction. All right, so. But the problem, of course, is that when you push people too hard, when it becomes so obvious, you explain people, then people will eventually revolt against you. So the solution that we figured out is what we can do is we can actually move okay, the landlord class can actually move somewhere else. And so when the anxiety becomes overwhelming, what will happen is the peasants will destroy each other where and the landlord moves somewhere else to the capital, and they'll come back when the peasant class have completely exhausted themselves, and they're really they're willing to rebuild society, okay? And this process is what rules to the world today, it is what we call transnational capital.

Prof. Jiang  9:49  
In other words, the wealthy people of the world, they have absolutely no loyalty to nation or to people or to place. They only have loyalty. To their capital, and they're willing to move to wherever they can, wherever they have to, in order to keep their capital safe and to grow it. And that's why a lot of people today are moving to Dubai or Hong Kong or Singapore. They don't care. They may not be all that place, but they'll go wherever they need to in order to pay less taxes, in order to avoid the social conflict created by their policies, in order to find better investment opportunities. And that's the system is what rules the world today. But then the question is, okay in concrete terms, what really is transnational capital? What allows transnational capital to function, to be able to move from place to place? Because, remember, when you move from place to place, there are a lot of costs involved. For example, you don't really know anyone there. And so how can you trust the people? Right? And it's a solution that we dealt over the centuries, is the idea of secret societies. So what you will learn is that secret societies and transnational capital are essentially the same thing, okay? And this is the force that rules the world today. All right. So now that I've discussed residential capital, let's look at secret societies like where they come from and how they work. Okay? Well, civil societies exist because the lender class and the present class are fundamentally different. Therefore, the motivations, the beliefs, the world view of these two classes must be different. So the peasants, what do peasants want? They want to live a simple life. They want to make some money, they want to have a family, they want to have some fun. They want to believe in God, okay? And so for the peasant class, we have organised religion, whether it's Islam or Christianity? Christianity, Jesus, right? Jesus tells you to be a good person. Confucius tells you to be a good person, right? But the Latino class is different. Their responsibility, they have a obligation to control the present class and extract as much energy as possible in order to maintain their society. Okay, so their religious practices must be very different. So whereas the peasants can pray to God, the learner class must fundamentally pray to Satan. Okay, so now let's look at why the learner class must pray to Satan, and this is true for all societies throughout human history. Before the lender class was blatant about it, okay, now they have to be more hypocritical, more secretive about it, all right. So let's look at this lender class. All right. So to be a lender class, to be the lead, you have to do terrible things, but it's actually hard to do terrible things. All right, so let me give an example. Let's just say I would say to you, all right, I'm gonna give you 10 million US dollars. What you need to do is this. What you need to do is take a gun and late at night, go kill random stranger. You think, Wow, that's a really good deal. If I kill random stranger at late at night, no one shouldn't know I did it, and I walk away with $10 million and you think that I can do it, but guess what? When actually make you and go, make you. Go do it, you actually can't do it because there are lots of restrictions on your behaviour. Okay, so think of suicide. If I gave you $100 million and promised you a path to heaven, would you kill yourself? Probably not. Okay. So suicide, killing yourself, in many ways, it's no different from killing someone else. We can't do it, okay, but there are actually hacks around this. We've got ways to make you go kill someone in a way that doesn't make you feel that guilty about Okay, so to understand why, I will introduce you to social science experiments that they conducted in America at the end of the 20th century. Okay, the first is something called the Milgram experiment. And this was done at Yale by a psychologist named Stanley Milgram. And the experiment was very simple. What he would do is he would set up an actor, okay, this is an actor, okay, what we'll call confederate. And the person will be hooked up to an electric chair, right? And there'll be a buzzer, a buzzer which increases the. Voltage an electric chair, okay? And there's like a max and there's a min, okay? And Cindy Milgram would be here in his lab coat, and he would invite a participant, okay, who's essentially a student, to come and be an assistant, okay? And the assistant's job was to press the button, and silline Milgram wanted to know, first of all, would this volunteer, this assistant, agree to Shaw another human being, even though he's seen the human being in pain, and second of all, silly, Milgram wanted to see how much pain the volunteer was willing to inflict and it turned out that with the idea of authority, okay, people are much more willing to let go of their inhibitions, because what you're doing is you are Removing responsibility from yourself to someone else. I didn't do it. I was ordered to do it, and surprisingly, people are willing to inflict a lot of pain on other people because they are able to remove responsibility for their individual actions. Okay, does that make sense? So the point of secret society is to for people to come together and avoid taking responsibility for their actions. How? By praying to another god, right? By saying we didn't do this. We didn't go start this war. We didn't destroy the economy. It was Satan that told us to do it. We had a meeting with Satan. We did the rituals. We summoned Satan, and Satan says, for the good of the world, you must be evil. You must go and start this war so that we can create paradise on earth. It wasn't us. It was not us. Was Satan who did this? Okay? That's the point of secret society, to force yourself to believe that you have no agency in this world and you are controlled by Satan, okay, or another god Saturn. So it's very common for these sinusoids to believe in a God called Saturn, who is Saturn, Saturn, the Greek is Cronus, and Cronus is a God of Time. God Cronus is a God of Time and order and structure. And Cronus will do things that were unconscionable, that were inhuman, humane, in order to maintain control of the world, including in his own children, because then his children cannot rebel against him. Okay, so they pray to Saturn to look for that divine energy in order to maintain order and control in the world, for the good of others. Okay, not for the good of me, but for the good of others. It doesn't make sense. Okay? That's the first idea I need to understand about statistics. They always pray to a higher God. They believe in interdimensional legit people, or they believe in Satan, or they believe in Saturn. Who cares? Okay? But it's they don't feel as though they're in control. They feel as though to possess by demons or by extra extraterrestrials, okay? And why? In order to do what they must, to maintain their power and their wealth. That's number one. Number two is this another experiment that you guys might have heard of some called the Solomon Asch experiment.

Prof. Jiang  18:36  
And here the experiment is 10 people in a room, 234-567-8910,

Prof. Jiang  18:51  
okay? And all sit together, and they're just asked to tell me if this is a straight line or a circle. Okay, it's that simple. Then what happens is a volunteer is asked to come into the room, okay? And this volunteer goes last, and everyone around the room goes and tells the answer, okay. And from one to 10, and these are all confederates, okay? These are all part of conspiracy. From one to 10, they all say, this is a circle. And so by the time you get to the volunteer, who's number 11, he's like, Hmm, what should i What should I say? And often, a lot of times, is he'll say, it's a circle, because he's trying to conform to the group. But not only that, afterwards, when he's told that, oh, there's actually a lie. He's actually convinced he saw a circle. Okay, that's the power of group conformity. So two ideas, authority and conformity is what underlies the power of success. Societies, and as such, you are now because you are part of the society, you have the power to take a gun, go kill someone late at night and collect your $10 million okay, does that make sense? Guys? All right? And again, every society does this because often, when you're part of a landlord class, the elite, the church national capitalist, you have to do things against your own hardwired wiring, okay, your own psychology. And that's why secret societies exist all right. Now, sometimes secret societies are forced to do really bad things because they're often in competition with each other, and in this competition, it's always question of like, who's more evil, okay? So what they figured out is this. They figured out how to structure their secret societies. Okay, this hierarchy, you sorry, hierarchy. Okay, so these are the top, the landlords, and these are basically the initiates. Okay, the people want to join, but they are ignorant about the two purpose of the society. So the question then is, how do you maintain this hierarchy? And what they figure out is something really, really simple. All right, it's really simple. Human psychology. Throughout human history, what was very common was for groups of young men, okay, they've been discarded by the families because the families don't have enough to eat. So they get together and they form like wolf packs. They go around and they're and what they really want is a wife. Okay, that's what they really want. More than food. They want a wife. So what they're forced to do is go as a group, as a gang, go to a village and kidnap a woman and kill the family, okay? And this is a very common thing in human history, and let's try to figure out the psychology of what's going on. Okay, so you have, like, five guys. This is just, this is just a fox bird, okay? Five Guys, young guys, and they go, and they're gonna go to a village where there's a family, okay, a husband, a wife and two kids. What they're gonna do, of course, is they're also gonna kill the husband, and they're also going to kill the two children, okay? And they'll kidnap the wife. Now, let me ask you this question. Let's understand the psychology of this woman when her entire life is destroyed, okay? Does she? A, want vengeance? B, become depressed, C, fall in love with one of the guys, A, B or C. Guys, A, B or C, yeah. What is that? Okay, you guys would think she would want vengeance. What has happened? But that's how it happens, okay? Well, it's more likely that she becomes depressed or she falls in love. It's often, it's often a time that she falls in love. We call this a Stockholm Syndrome, all right? It's a very basic human psychology that is consistent throughout human history, throughout all societies, when a woman sees her entire life collapsed like that, she now she has no longer any stability. Her reality is destroyed, and therefore she clings to anyone who is willing to support her, even though that person is the person who destroyed her life in the first place. It's really weird psychology, but it's very, very true. That's also why arranged marriages work okay throughout human society, a man, a man, older man, is often paired with a younger wife. She might be like 14 or 13, but you know, after a few years, they do fall in love with each other, because the woman is completely dependent on the man. Okay, also like physical intimacy, all right. So it sounds really depressing, but this is a very basic principle of human psychology, where, because at this point in history, when her reality has collapsed, her soul has left her okay? And that's basically a slave. And what a slave does is someone who clings to life. All right? Does that make sense? Okay? Now, what happens to these five guys? Okay? A, do they feel guilty for what they do? B, do they fight over the woman, or see, are they brothers forever? The obvious answer is, C right, brothers forever. Okay, so even though they commit this terrible, terrible act, it's made them more unified, okay? And this is a structure of secret societies. The structure of secret society. Studies is for the people that were taught to commit these rituals of torture in order to turn the initiates into slaves, and those who are most willing to participate in these rituals, those who are most willing to become slaves, become the middle people. Okay, the people that are most trusted, because now they're slaves. And that's how suicidal work, and that's why there are so many different degree securities. That's why, at the very top, no one knows what they're really doing. What they're really doing is praying to Satan, okay, because Satan is giving us strength, or Saturn, who knows? Okay? Or whatever, Saturn or sin, is given the strength in order to torture these initiates. So these initiates become their slaves for life, and then these initiates are given limitless wealth and power because they are now completely loyal, dependent on the master, right. All right. All right, this sounds confusing, but let's, let's use another example. All right, so Spartans Sparta. So Sparta, remember, Sparta is a war society, a militaristic society that's intent on maintaining control over its slaves, okay, the helots. And the helots outnumber the Spartans 10 to one. So these Spartans need to be really cohesive as a society. They need to fight and die for each other. So their education system is set like this, at five or six, the child, a Spartan child, is taken away from the parents, okay? And this obviously creates fear and anxiety,

Prof. Jiang  26:49  
all right. Also what happens is the child is in school beaten up by the older kids, and this creates trauma, all right. Another word we use for this is intergenerational trauma, because the smartest do this to every child. Intergenerational trauma, all right, so the kid at this point is unsafe, insecure, his mind is really screwed up, and then when he's most vulnerable, maybe when he's 11 or 12, what happens now is, he's paired with an older man who's like 29 or 30. Okay, an older man and this older man, they become lovers. Basically. What happens is, the man, first, of course, commits, you know, sexual abuse. But again, because the child is traumatised, because the child has no bearings, no reality, doesn't believe anyone in this world loves him, even, even though man is being abusive to him, he falls in love with a man, and as a result, the boy will do anything that the man orders to him to do. Okay? So what happens is this man becomes his general, and he becomes a soldier or an officer, and that's why the Spartans are so fearless. Okay? Because the soldiers are completely loyal to the generals, because they were once lovers, the soldier feels as though this general who I must obey, he saved my life when I most needed it. My parents abandoned me when I was being beaten up every day, when I felt complete insecurity, when I was traumatised, he came and he gave me a home, and therefore I must die for him and guys. Guys, look, listen, this sounds weird, but if you go to the inner city gangs, inner city gangs in America or anywhere in the world, okay, these drug cartels in Mexico, they use the same principles as Spartans, okay? These young boys, 1314, they have no father, so put in a gang. They're abused, and then the gang leader treats them well. They might have some, you know, you know, sex. And then these boys are coming loyal to the gang leaders. Same thing if you go to these, these child armies in Africa, okay, very basic principle that every every human understands if you abuse a child and then be nice to a child, that child is obedient to you forever. This How secret scientists behave. Okay, one last example. So in history, there was a very famous secret society called assassins. You may have played the video game Assassin's Creed, okay? Why are they called assassins? Because of the word hashes. Hashes is a chocolate marijuana, right? It's a hallucinogen. So the way these two studies would work is, if you're a new member, I would make you have hashes. Okay? How? Ashes, and your mind would become blurry. You feel as though you're in a dream. And then what would happen is, I put you in a room and you basically like drunk, okay? And then these young folks would come and pleasure you, and then you would wake up in your home, and you would think, this was a dream, okay? And your match would tell you, this is what paradise is like, all right, this is what heaven is like. If you do what I tell you, I guarantee you, you will go to heaven where 10,000 virgins will pleasure you for returning, okay? And this turns these assassins into the most decade. Killers. Again, I keep on saying this, it's really hard to convince someone to go kill another person, but these assassins are willing to do whatever it takes in order to enter paradise. Okay, so guys, this combination sex plus trauma, you on plus hallucinations or Hossain, psychedelics, okay, these three things, psychedelics, drugs, sex was trauma. They create the perfect slaves, okay, slaves, because now what you can do is you can take these slaves and then have them infiltrate other secret societies. They become the perfect spies, because they are forever loyal to you. Okay? They're completely emotionally dependent on you, and they will do whatever what it takes in order to please you. But you have to, you have to, like, train them from an early age. Okay? And this is, and this is how these single societies, they fight each other, they recruit an army of young kids, they traumatise, brutalise, these kids, to train them to be spies, to be killers, and then they will unleash these kids on other secret societies and their enemies as well, like the assassins did. Okay? Does that make sense? Okay, you have a question.

Speaker 1  32:12  
So, like, for the woman, like her families are being killed, like, won't he? Will she remember like, who has done like, who has killed all her families, but just have relied on that

Prof. Jiang  32:30  
murder because he, he his, you know, cannot understand the question, okay, it's a good question, okay, the answer is this, in psychology, what you learn is that, when you're traumatised. What happens to you? What happens to you? You're not there, you're it's the word is disassociation. Okay? You don't you're not there, you don't remember anything, because your mind will explode or your system would collapse if you actually remember in detail what happened. So your mind disassociates. You're not there, you don't remember anything, okay, that's why trauma is so effective, is not only do you become obedient and dependent on the person traumatising you, but the same time, you actually don't remember this association. Okay? So the person who really controls you, you forget your handler. Okay? Your handler is someone that is at the back of your mind. But even if you don't know that person, what happens if that person comes before you tells you what to do, you obey, okay? It's almost as though the handler has programmed you and only he knows the password. So this is what we call programming, and this is what they did with NK Ultra, okay. MK Ultra, MK Ultra, MK monarch, but it's a very common thing. We've been doing this for 1000s of years in every single society, because it works and it's easy and it's effective, okay, right? Does that make sense? All right. All right, so let's talk about the development of transnational capital. All right, so there have been four distinct stages. Let's look at them. These four distinct stages are Venice, Dutch Republic, England, and what's the last one? Guys? Come on America, right? Okay, so these four places are special because they are all merchant oligarchies. Merchant oligarchies, meaning that they are controlled by private interests, private interests. Now I understand that in school, you're taught that America's democracy and English democracy. And all that. No, guys, it's all nonsense. These are all our car keys. They're controlled by private interests. They've always been controlled by private interests. They're still controlled by private interest today, okay, and the way that it's private interest, what they do to maintain control over their people and the world is through three mechanisms, okay? The first is banking. Banking just means that these oligarchs are pooling their resources together in order to extract energy from the world. Now the thing about banking that's very important is that if you're able to bank a certain way, you're able to extract energy across time and space, right? You're able to borrow money from the future and spend it today. Does that make sense? Okay? And this will happen with the abstraction of capital. All right? So banking is basically extract time and space. You're extracting energy from across time and space. I'll explain more as we go along. Second is the idea of a navy, where we're controlling trade. The third is diplomacy. The idea of diplomacy is you don't want to fight wars because your population is very limited. What you want to do is trick other people into fighting wars for you, okay? You want to have these trade negotiations, so it's like spying intelligence, all right? And in all four what's really important is that if you have much an oligarchy, you're actually controlled by a secret society, okay, not a king, but by secret society, because otherwise, how else can these merchants get along with each other? Okay, so secret societies is what allows them to work together to plan and control their populations. Now what's going to happen is this, Venice is one of the early oligarchies, but with each iteration, it's going to improve in power. Why? Because by the time we get from Venice to England and, sorry, to England and the Dutch Republic, we have something called the Protestant Reformation. Okay, so what I will do is explain to you what the possible reformation is. The positive reformation radically changes how we see ourselves and our relationship with God, which makes transnational capital much more powerful. And then what's gonna happen is, but then we hit England. We go from England to America. We have the enlightenment.

Prof. Jiang  37:49  
Okay? And when we hit the lightenment, what should happen is, by giving of God, we turn money into God. And when this happens, transnational capital becomes all powerful. All right, so remember, what's happening is we have Venice then, then the church Republican was more powerful than Venice because it adopts the ideas of proximal reformation. And then America becomes more powerful than England because it adopts the ideas of the Enlightenment. What's happening throughout this process is transnational. Capitalist is becoming much more abstract, and therefore much more powerful, okay, and therefore much more capable of extracting energy from the population. All right, so let's go over the process of reformation. All right, the Catholics and the Protestants. So there are three major differences between the Catholics and the Protestants, the first, so the Catholics have three basic ideas, orthodoxy, there's hierarchy, and there's just specification by works.

Prof. Jiang  39:11  
All right, so the idea is, hey, if you want to go to heaven, just obey the Catholic Church what the priest tells you. Don't think just do what the priest tells you to do, really simple, right? Okay, but there are three problems with all this. Okay. The first problem is, God becomes distant from you. Okay, you're not allowed to communicate with God. And as I keep on saying, this class we humans are first and foremost religious. We want to be spiritual. We want to have communion with God. But the Catholic Church says, No, you have to obey us. Okay? You You have to obey our dogma, even though our dogma doesn't really make much sense, okay? That if hierarchy, of course, leads to corruption, where the priests. Whatever they want because they're in power, okay? And they become extremely wealthy and powerful. The third problem justification by works is it leads to hypocrisy. You can be the worst person in the world, but Hey, as long as you give enough money to the Catholic Church, you would have it guys. Okay, all right, so that's why the Protestants hated the Catholic Church, and so they proposed a new system. All right? The new system is, first of all, direct access. You don't have to go through the priest anymore, you don't have to listen to the dogma of the church. You can just actually communicate with the God directly through the Bible, okay. Second idea is egalitarian, where there is no longer any hierarchy. You can communicate with God directly. And the third idea is justification by faith, okay. The problem, though, of course, is that these three solutions to the Catholic problem will create more problems. Okay, the first is that you have direct access, so you can access God directly. The problem is that Christians believe in the Holy Trinity, okay, the Holy Trinity, right? God, Jesus and the Holy Spirit are different, but the same. Okay, separate, but co equal. It makes no sense whatsoever. And as such, if you're trying to access yourself, you can't do it because this force, this precludes you. Okay, it is impossible for you to insert yourself into the story of the Holy Trinity. It was just Jesus. You could talk to Jesus, but how do you talk to Jesus, God and Holy Spirit at the same time? You can't do it. Okay? So this causes confusion. Okay. Second problem is a idea of egalitarian. This causes just, just so much chaos, debating chaos, right? Because now, hey, if I want to, I can start my own religion. I don't need to get people to greet me. I need to start my own religion and have followers follow me. Okay? So this causes a lot of debate within the process of religion. It still happens today. Where among the Protestants there are, like, 1000s and 1000s of different branches, okay? The last problem is most problematic, justification by faith. This creates anxiety, right? Because if you don't really know God because of the Holy Trinity, how do you know you really believe in God? Right? The Catholics believe that all you do is give some money, do some good work, don't sin and go to heaven. But Protestants believe that, no, you have to really believe in God in order to go to heaven. Okay? What's even worse is that another reformer named John Calvin, he proposed the idea of double creation, predestination, because the Catholic Church says, You know what, only we can decide who goes to heaven. So if you disobey us, you'll burn in hell. And John Coven to respond to this says, no, no, no, the Catholic Church has no power over anyone, because God, at the beginning of time, has already decided who will go to heaven and who go to hell. Okay? Double predestination. It's already been decided, guys. And how do you know if, well, the solution is through energy, right? If you work hard and you make a lot of money, you become very wealthy, then you know that God favours you. But after you become very wealthy, what's really important is for you to understand you can't spend all this money because you can't sin, okay? So you can only invest the money as you can understand, the merchant oligarchies love this, because now they're taking people's money and they're able to invest it in any way they want. It's all going to bank, okay? And this is the Dutch Republic. This creates the Dutch Republic, which becomes the Welfare Society in Europe at this time in the 17th century. Okay, all right, any questions so far? Okay, so what's going to happen, though, is, by the time you go from England to America, okay, England is also Protestant. You process of reformation is going to change to the enlightenment. The Enlightenment is, there may be a God, but God doesn't really interfere in the universe. God lets us do what we want. Okay? So it's up to us to create our own world. So now that God has left, what happens is you need something to replace the God, right? This becomes the holy. This becomes money, okay? Money as God. And this works because if you insert money into the Protestant faith, it solves a lot of problems. It solves a problem of anxiety. Because, how do you know you go to heaven if you become very wealthy, okay? And everyone, how do you know you're faith by God, whoever becomes the wealthiest, okay, so money becomes a new religion of America, and this is what ultimately leads to a triumph of transnational capitalism, okay, all right, okay, so how do we get from the Dutch Republic to England? Okay, the answer is very simple. The problem is that the Dutch Republic, it is on the continent of Europe, therefore it's very easy to invade. Neither problem like, how do you keep your money safe from invaders, okay? Because they have a lot of gold. And so what they will do is they will trans, they will take this money, and in 1688, they will transfer most of this money to England. Okay, so how does England convince the Dutch to invest in England? Well, first thing is, they make a Dutch aristocrat, will of orange the King of England. Okay, all right. 1688, England invites will of orange to become the king of England. That's number one. Number two is the Bank of England is set up in 6094, what makes a Bank of England special is that it is a private bank that is guaranteed by Parliament. Does that make sense, guys? What this means is this? What this means is that if I make a lot of money, I keep it. If I lose my money, the people will ensure that I get it back. Okay, now what's gonna happen is the Bank of England will lend money to England to fight wars. Remember the Bank of England? What it is, it's transnational capital, so it's private interest, but anything invested, including the Dutch Republic, including, guess what, the Catholic Church. Okay, the third thing is secret societies. So what's going to happen is that secret societies are going to create these linkages among these different transnational capital groups in order allow them to work together. Okay, all right, so does it make sense? And what's really important is this system will transfer over to America, create a system that we have today. The Bank of England becomes Federal Reserve secret society's transfer over. These are the Freemasons. Okay, all right, that doesn't make sense, guys. And this is why we have the system that we have today. The thing that you need understand about the Federal Reserve is the Federal Reserve was set up in like 1913, or 14, I can't remember, okay, but the Federal Reserve, what they can do is print money. It's a private bank. It's private interest. They print money, and government, how's it gonna spend money? It borrows for the Federal Reserve at interest? Okay, so the people are borrowing from the bankers, and so that's why America is controlled by private interests, right? Clear, and that's why transactional capital controls America and the world. Any questions? All right, so let's go for the PPT. Okay.

Prof. Jiang  48:39  
All right, so Venice. What makes Venice special is, after Rome collapses, Roman Empire collapses, right? These noble families, they're now impoverished, they go to different places. The city that becomes dominant in the entire peninsula is actually Venice. Why? Because you're surrounded by marshes, so it's hard to invade, and you don't actually want to invade it, because it has no resources. So resources. Its only advantage is that it's by the coast, which allows it to engage in piracy as well as trade and diplomacy. Okay, all right, so this is banished today, and as you can see, it would be very hard to invade.

Prof. Jiang  49:26  
Also remember, at this time it's very poor, so no one wants to invade it, all right? Another picture, pretty, beautiful, right? You guys should go before it sinks. Okay, if you want to go visit Venice, do it now before it sinks. All right. So again, a Venice, it's a merchant oligarchy, just like the Dutch Republic, just like England, just like America, okay, it seems like a democracy they call some Republic, but it's actually controlled by private interests, okay. Do. All right, so, because Venice has no resources, it has to engage in trade, and it helps up a lot of trade networks throughout the Middle Ages. And it's what it's going to do that's very profitable, is it's gonna pour spices from from East Asia back to Europe, okay? And this is gonna make Venice very, very wealthy. So the two big cities are Genoa and Venice, okay? And as you can see, they are extremely energetic. They're gonna set up trade networks throughout the world. This is a spice trade. And the centre, of course, is in Venice. And this makes Venice the most wealthy city in Europe at some point. Okay. Also remember, what these small city states do that's that's very effective, is that they become parasites on the Empire. Okay, so Venice can take its wealth and bribe empirical bear craft in Constantinople to give it trade preferences. Okay? And Venice will also sell alliances with also the Islamic empire as well as the Mongols as well.

Prof. Jiang  51:22  
Guess who is from Venice. Marco Polo is from Venice. Okay. Why is Marco Polo travelling around the world to set up new linkages for Venice? Okay, so you got all these Venetians going around the world to be spies and to explore in order to set up new networks for Venice? Because they don't have any choice in matter. They are a trading power. They don't have any resources on their own, so the people have to be very energetic, okay, and while this happening, they set up these banks where the wealthy merchants can pull their resources to take more risks. Okay? Eventually, what will happen is that Venice will decline and the Dutch Republic will emerge. What makes the Dutch Republic so powerful is that it's ruled by merchants who now adopted Calvinism. Okay, remember, Calvinism is the faith that wealth is signals that you will go to heaven. So everyone in the Dutch Republic works really, really hard. It's a very energetic society, and they can now feed off the Spanish Empire, okay, the Austrian Hungary Empire, the hasbroux. Why? Because the Spanish Empire, what they've done is they've gone to South America and capture a lot of gold, and it makes their people very lazy, okay? So there are three ways in which you can take advantage of that. The first, of course, is piracy, where your ships just steal the gold. Access gold is heading back to Spain. Another is just by providing industry for these people. These people don't want to work, so you just sell them clothes. Okay? And this builds up the industry of France, Britain and the Dutch Republic. The last way, of course, is private luxury goods, especially spices, to the market. So because the Spanish Empire is so wealthy, this wealth transfers to the energy industry of the Dutch Republic. And as you can see, this is what the trade looks like. The Dutch will set up a power company called the Dutch East India's company, which is almost like a nation unto itself. It becomes the world's wealthiest Corporation even today. Okay, and the reason why, as a monopoly over the spice trade from the east, indies, it has its own army, it has its own currency. It has its own government, okay? It can enact its own laws in the regions it controls. All right? And as you can see, the Dutch are very energetic. So as a comparison, let's compare it to the Spanish Empire, okay, so at this point in history, the Spanish Empire is the wealthiest, most, largest empire in the world. But as you can see, the Dutch are much more energetic, okay, the Dutch are much more industrious, and the British are actually much more industrious as well. Okay, the reason why is the Spanish are still Catholic, whereas the Dutch Republic have turned into Protestants, okay? And this allows for the growth of the middle class, because as long as you women work hard, you can become wealthy, whereas the Spanish it's very much a society based on nobility and clerical privilege. Okay, all right, so as we discussed, the two leaders of proximal information are Martin Luther who proposed justification by sit by faith, okay, justification by faith, you have to actually believe in God if you want to access heaven. And John Calvin, who proposed the idea of double predestination, which means that God has already decided who's gone, who's who's going to hell, who's going to heaven, and therefore you have. Improve it to yourself by working really hard, making a lot of money and not spending it, okay? And then all this money goes to the bank, which allows for the growth of the Dutch Republic.

Unknown Speaker  55:11  
All right, the

Prof. Jiang  55:12  
Protestant Reformation will have many major effects on the world. It will lead something called a 30 Years War, and the Protestants will fight the Catholics, and this will lead to the death of millions and millions of people. In fact, this is the deadliest war in Europe right before World War One, okay, yeah, the war is deadly. It lasts for a long time, 30 years. It will kill millions of people. You uh, because of positive reformation, the Catholic Church is under attack. So what they decided to do is they set up a civil society, basically an intelligence agency called the Jesuits. This is laloya. You may have heard of Loreal university, so they just go around the world of a lot of universities and schools, but their main mission is to infiltrate Protestant societies and try to overthrow the government and try to make them more Catholic. Okay, and response, so this is the system of the Jesuits. And response the process of semps called the Freemasons. Okay, we'll discuss this later on, right? But so, so throughout history, at this time, there's a battle, a secret battle, going on between the Jesuits and the Freemasons. They're using all sorts of really nefarious, evil techniques, including, as we discussed, traumaizing young children so they could be spies to infiltrate other groups, okay? Because remember, at this point in history, people believe in God, so they ask you, Do you swear to God? And you have to, okay? And so you have to have secret identities if you are to pass their test. Okay? So one of the crucial battlegraphs between the Jesuits and the Freemasons, the past tense is England, okay? Henry the eighth. What he will do is will split off from the Pope, because they Henry the Eighth, like most monarchs in Europe, they want to maintain their independence, their autonomy. When he dies, Queen Elizabeth the First, will inherit the throne, and at this point in history, there are a lot of Catholics who want to see overthrown, so she launches this massive campaign to persecute Catholics. This will lead to many, many battles, crises between the Catholics and the Protestants. James the Second is a Catholic king, and the Protestant ability don't don't want that. So what they will do is to conspire against him. In 1688, they will invite the Dutch aristocrat Wilmore orange into England to become the king. And they and this will lead to something called the Glorious Revolution, where now authority passes to Parliament. What parliament will do is charge something called the Bank of England, which is, again, it's a private bank with a power of state. They can print money, okay? And this solves a huge problem, because before what happened is these private bankers would lend money to monarchs. The problem that is, the monarch could die, the monarch could be overthrown, the monarch could lose a war. The monarch could just decide not to pay you back, okay, but now, if it's Parliament that's borrowing the money, the people always have to pay you back, okay, unless England is destroyed as a nation. Your loan to the nation will always be guaranteed, and this is what will allow England to become an empire. So the great conflict between England and France, of course, is the Neapolitan wars, where Napoleon is about to conquer Europe, and Britain cannot have that. Okay, Britain is a naval power, and if Napoleon is able to establish an empire in Europe, then England won't be able to trade with Europe. So what England will do is finance seven wars against Napoleon, and they can do that because they have to. Bank of England was able to borrow unlimited amount of money from the future, as well as across space, okay, across time and space. That's how they're gonna defeat Napoleon. Napoleon defeated England six times, but England didn't really care. Because, first of all, England wasn't fighting the war. It was just financing the wars. And England cannot stop fighting the wars, because otherwise it would go bankrupt. Okay, does that make sense? All right, the political wars. And this establishes, of course, the British Empire. They can do what they want now. So they take over India, and they say. Something called the East India Company, okay? And the East India Company is also a nation to unto itself. It is, at this time, as a company, maybe the third or fourth richest nation in the world. And of course, what they do that's very important is they extract wealth from India. They basically steal a lot of wealth from India. There people estimate that they've stolen like $45 trillion of wealth from India. Okay? So you can see how in 1700 before they arrive with the East India Company, India might have like a quarter of the world's GDP, but over the next 200 300 years, their wealth will plummet, okay? The reason why is what's gonna happen is that England will turn India into a resource colony. They will destroy the manufacturing base of India, turn it to an agricultural economy, and then Force India to buy British manufactured goods. Okay, so what they will do is use India to drive their industrial revolution, okay? And as you can see, they're also forcing the Indians to pay a lot more money than their own people. And so in 1913 to 1950 the average income of Indians don't really change that much, okay, but what's really important for you to understand is this, the British cannot have done this. Well, help from the Indian people themselves. Okay? So what's happening is the British, for the Bank of England, they're able to co op the Indian elite. Why? Because now you're able to take your wealth and then store it in England. Okay, does that make sense? Before, you couldn't really take your wealth anywhere, so your interests were aligned with the people. But now that you're able to take this wealth and then put in England to be saved, your interests are now aligned with the British. And guess what? Guys, the same strategy happened in China as well, where the Chinese local elites were helping the British establish opium trade networks throughout the country. That's why opium was able to spread so fast. Okay, and guys, the system. The system is still around today. Okay, so the British Empire may be gone, but the British system of money laundering, of stealing a nation's resources by called near elite, it still exists today. Okay, so these are all places where England has these offshore, private banks, so that the elite of Africa, of Asia can take, can steal from the nation, and store it in these banks, okay, all right, so England has some of the world's worst tax havens. All right, so what did England do with this money? Well, what England did was invest it in America. At this time, America is industrialising, and what's interesting about America is only a few individuals were able to monopolise entire industries. This is Cornelius Vanderbilt, and he monopolised the railway industry.

Unknown Speaker  1:03:19  
How did he do that? He

Prof. Jiang  1:03:25  
it. This is Andrew Carnegie, who was born poor, but then he monopolised America's steel industry. How did one person do that? That's really strange, guys. Oh, Rockefeller. He monopolised America's oil industry. In fact, over six weeks, he was able to buy all his competitors. Where did he get all this money to buy out his competitors? How to Become a monopolist? How is this happening? Guys? JP Morgan, he monopolises America's financial industry, and he creates something called the Federal Reserve, which is, which is system they still have today, where America is ruled by private banks, Okay, how's this happening? All right, so these questions, how is it possible for these individuals to monopolise industries? Why these monopolies national rather than regional? Okay? And why didn't government make public these critical infrastructure and research like we do in China? Right? Oil should belong to people. Why is belong to one person? The reason why is it is England that is using its wealth from India and China to finance these individuals. Allow these individuals to build entire industries. Why is it doing that? Because the Americans, at this history, at this time in history, they hate the British, right? The Americans, like in 1776 we found a revolution here with the British. Why would we allow the British come back and buy our land and our oil and our steel and our railways? Right? They. Four they needed people like Johnny Rockefeller, Andrew Carnegie, to act as agents. Does that make sense? All right, so in America, you're taught that these people, Andrew Carnegie, John Rockefeller, they were just rags to riches. It's because of the American dream. It's not an opportunity. If you work hard, you can become a billionaire. No, guys, that's not true. Okay, you balance your society if you are financed by the British Empire, you could become a billionaire. And guess what? Guys, we have the same system today. Bill Gates,

Prof. Jiang  1:05:35  
Mark Zuckerberg, really strange. This 19 year old guy drops out from Harvard and founds Facebook, okay, and now he's a billionaire. How does that happen? Guys, well, it must be an American dream. Oh, chatgpt. Guys, really strange. If you have a dream and you just follow it, you can be a billionaire in America.

Unknown Speaker  1:06:00  
Yeah, yeah,

Prof. Jiang  1:06:04  
it's all just a scam, right? Google, it's all just a scam. Okay, what you need to understand about these companies is they were all founded with us, military technology, that is public, okay? Internet, it's a US, military technology, Google, the search engines, it's all us, military technology. They're given to these guys for free. Why would they do that? Okay, again, if you think that we're ruled by secret societies, and it's really civil societies that control the world, and they want this technology out there to better surveil people. It makes a lot more sense, right? Because the Pentagon said, Hey, with this free computer that you can use, you'd be like, I'm gonna use this computer, because you'll spy me, right? But if Mark Zuckerberg says, Hey, free Facebook, guys want to use it, yeah, sure. Facebook, yeah, he said, Thor from Harvard, of course, he can be trusted, right? Same, same strategy. Okay, guys. All right, so 1913 these bankers met together, except the Federal Reserve System, and this led to something called the Bretton Woods system. In 1945 America won the war, and America promised the world that the US currency, backed by gold. Will become the reserve currency of the world, but this currency will always be backed by gold. There's nothing to worry about, right? Well, in 1971 Richard Nixon says, screw that. Okay, we're not backed by gold anymore, but we're not backed by gold anymore. You can use it. You don't. You don't have to use it, though, okay, but guess what? Oil will now be sold in go in US dollars, because it's called a petrodollar. If you want to buy oil, you have to use US dollars, okay? And then he did something else that was very important. It was actually more important than leaking the US dollar to oil. Can you guys, guess what? Oh, this, okay, guess what, millions of Chinese, working really hard. It's all for useless. Us, dollars guys, okay, all right, okay. So America was founded by Ben Franklin and George Washington, among others. They were both members of the Freemasons. They're both members of secret societies. Okay, so America is really a Freemason country, and how do we know little Washington, DC? Okay, guess what? Guys, the architecture, the city design, it's all secret society stuff. Okay, this is a pentagram. And this is the White House, right? This is the White House, and you can see how it's designed. This is occult symbolism. There's another picture showing you that this is a Freemason symbol backed by the Pentagon. I'm sorry, the pentagram. Okay, if you want to see more of these six sided occult symbolism, just look at the US money. All right. This is the all seeing eye, the pyramid. It all all the symbolism comes from Egypt, Greece, Babylon, okay, it's all part of the Freemason system. This is seal the United States, the New World Order. The New World Order. We'll be discussing this next week. Okay, but now you reach a point in history where you got too much wealth, people become lazy and complacent. So what do you do with these peasants? We know exactly what they're gonna do. They're gonna show the economy like they did in 1929 and then they're gonna start world war three. Okay, that's the that's the goal, because how the system works. Is your translator capital. You need people to constantly focus and working. Can you do that by creating anxiety, by destroying wealth, by creating a cycle of constant death and destruction? All right. Any questions? Clear, guys. All right. So great. So next class, we will discuss the Azmain frankis, okay, all right, I'm.

