Prof. Jiang  0:01  
So let's review last class. We discussed the mission of Jesus. Who is Jesus? Jesus was a messenger from the monad who reminded us that there's a divine spark in us, and how you activate the Divine Spark is by focusing on Jesus and repeating His words. Jesus was like zoarthusta, like Plato, like Homer, like the yahwehs, a poor prophet. And so if you just repeated his sayings, if you repeat his poetry, then you could activate that spark within you and glow, okay, and this explains why it became so popular. It also explains to us why the Romans had to kill him, because at this time the Roman Empire, the main currency, the main economy is based on slavery. Most people were slaves. If they were not slaves, they were poor. And here is Jesus, who's come to remind you that you don't have to be a slave. You are free to do whatever you want. There's a higher power than the Roman Empire, and it is the divine. It is the universe. And so people start to defy their masters, and they were no longer afraid of death. And this is why the Romans had to kill Jesus, because Jesus was stealing from them. Right? Slaves are property. If you let slaves run away, you free slaves, that destroys the wealth of the Romans. Remember that Jesus, when he was killed, he was killed along with two thieves, he was crucified. And so Jesus was killed because he was a thief, he was stealing from the Romans. Now the question, then, is okay? How do we from Jesus to the Catholic Church? Jesus teaches us that we are free to believe whatever we want, that we just listen to our hearts. We will be in touch with the monad again. We have nothing to fear the Catholic Church, the Church teaches us that you believe in Jesus, and that's all you do in order to achieve redemption and salvation, Jesus came to die for our sins, so therefore we are now SLAVES TO JESUS. These are two opposite ideas. The reason why is the idea of the Divine Spark is the greatest threat to Roman Empire, so Romans had to somehow imprison the spark and make it an economic commodity. Okay, and so that's why they create the Catholic Church. The Catholic Church is a prison in order to control that divine spark to hide it from you, the main architect of the Catholic Church is His name is Paul, okay, and most people agree that Paul and that Jesus is the real founder of Christianity. So let's discuss Paul. So Paul has a very interesting background. He is a Jew, but he grew up in Greek culture. He was very well educated. He was very wealthy, and this and so we say he's a Hellenized, Hellenized Jew, and is probably working for the Roman Empire as a spy or an agent. Now, in that time, your education was mainly in rhetoric, okay, other word we use for this is sophistry. So let me explain to you who the Sophists were, because they're very important. So back in classical Athens. There's a major debate between Socrates, a philosopher as well as a sophist. Okay, philosophy. So what's interesting is that they both come from the same word, which is Sophia, which is Greek, foreign knowledge. The philosophers are people who love knowledge. What they believe is that there is an eternal truth, and that we must try to achieve this eternal truth. Right? Remember Plato's Allegory the cave, how you escape from the cave and into the light. That's what philosophy is trying to do, trying to help you liberate yourself into the light surface. Believes something else. Sophists believe that eternal truth does not exist. Why? Because words are reality. Philosophers believe that words are an illusion, but sophists believe that words are a reality unto themselves, and so what's important is to learn. A master language in order to construct reality. Okay, so surface gives us the word sophistry, which is basically trickery. Okay, so in order to defeat the threat of a divine spark, what Paul does is he pulls a trick, and it's the greatest trick ever. The trick is this. Jesus says, Listen to my words and you will find divine spark in you. What Paul says is, believe in Jesus and you will be saved. Okay, so he changes the focus from the words of Jesus to the person of Jesus Himself, all right? And so what Paul's gonna do is he's gonna construct a new religion called Christianity by synchronising, synthesising the three major cultures of that time, the Roman culture, the Greek culture and the Jewish culture. Okay, so remember the Jewish culture is the Bible, and what Paul tells us is that Jesus is the Promised Messiah. At this time in history, the Bible was heavily influenced, influenced by the Persians. Right? Remember, the Persians were monotheists. They believed in good and evil, the Asher and the Jews. Okay? And so the Bible began to reflect the Persian belief, especially in the idea of eschatology, the end of the world. And what Jews believed is they're not afraid of Romans, because eventually the Messiah will return, or sorry, not return. The Messiah will come to lead them to war against the Romans. And because the Messiah is anointed by God, they will triumph. Okay, so the Jews are waiting for the Messiah of war in order for them to reclaim the Vedic kingdom, the kingdom of David. What Paul does, that's very clever, is that he uses this eschatology, but he says that Jesus is not the Messiah of war, He's the Messiah of peace, okay? And therefore we Jews should not resist the Romans, okay? So that's the first major culture that Paul uses. The second major culture that Paul uses is the Greek culture. So the Greeks have something called the mystery schools, and these are just cults. And what's important, you know these mystery schools, because they will become the basis of secret societies today. And in these mystery schools, there's lots of different ones, but Paul chooses a mystery school that worships Dionysus. Dionysus is the Greek god of creativity wine. And the story of Dionysus is he is born of a virgin mother. His father is Zeus, and then Dionysius is killed by the enemies of Zeus, and Zeus finds him and resurrects him. Okay, it's important, because this becomes the story of Jesus, and the how, the how that how the people worship Dionysus is they have a ritual meal where they actually believe they're eating a body of Dionysus, and they are absorbing his energy, and they're becoming one With Dionysus. They're coming communion with Dionysus and the Christians have the same ritual, okay? And this what's called the Eucharist, Thanksgiving, or communion. All Christians practice this today. So that's the second major culture. The third major culture, that is the most important of course, it's a Roman culture. So the Roman social structure is called the pater familias, and how the system works is at the very top, there's one patriarch, where we get the word patriarchy, right, and then he has lots of children, right, sons, and also he has slaves as well.

Prof. Jiang  9:57  
So it's a very top down system, right? Right? The patriarchs. Patriarchs at the third top in the system. The patriarch is always right. He is God. Here you have slaves. Now what the patriarch will do is he will identify very promising slaves, slaves with talent. He will turn them into clients. So clients are just business people. So he freezes slaves, and they become his clients. So now they're able to conduct business on his behalf. And in this way, he will create a business empire. Okay, so this is the idea of the Roman Empire. So rather, there's one system. The Roman Empire is actually a system, a platform where dozens of families control the empire together, and what happens is these families control a particular province. Okay, so it's more like a franchise model, rather than a strict hierarchy. This is important, because Paul will take the system and from the system, he'll copy it to create the church. All right. So the church is exactly the same as a pattern famous where at the very top you have a person, a bishop and everyone, and then he might have some cardinals, but then everyone else is just followers, okay, or disciples. So it mirrors the system. This is important, because now what you can do is you can easily switch from the current system to the new system devised by Paul. Now, why would the woman want to do this? Because, if you think about it, this is the perfect solution to the problem of Jesus as a patriarch, your main concern is getting your slaves to work hard, right? You want to suck the energy out of them. But now with Jesus, slaves are like, Why should I work for you? Paul solves this problem by saying, oh, follow Jesus and you'll be saved. Okay, so in this way, what happens is, Paul's formulation of Jesus causes slaves to work even harder, right? These idea is before you have to work in order to stay alive. Now they work in order to go to heaven for all of eternity, right? So the deal now is work as a slave for a few decades, but then you can enjoy an eternity of joy and Paradise. Pretty good deal, right? And so this causes the slaves to be more obedient and to work harder. Okay? Also, what's more important is now the patriarch switches from a king to a God, right? His private wealth now becomes spiritual authority. Not only that, but because he has spiritual authority, he can expand more rapidly outwards. Okay, so before to get slaves, you have to buy slaves. Now you just have to convert people into your religion. So it's a much faster way to create wealth. And this is important, because what you learn next class is, this is a system that the Romans will use to take over the barbarians. Okay, so next class you'll learn about the barbarian invasions, basically the Goths, and how, because of the system, they were now able to assimilate these barbarians into the culture and maintain a sort of hierarchy, okay? And so, in other words, Jesus was talking to slaves, but Paul was talking to patriarchs. And so these patriarchs would convert, and when they convert, they took the entire system with them. That explains the rapid growth of Christianity. Also what's important is the religion that the patriarchs practice is not the one that the slaves practice. The slaves practice Christianity, but the patriarchs practice the mystery cults. Okay? Why? Because this is the way that the patriarchs work together, and this becomes a basis for secret societies. So while the ordinary person worships a new religion called Christianity, the patriarchs themselves, in secret, still practice their Greek mystery cults. This is system that we still have even today. All right, okay, so this system now is able to spread really quickly, because, as you can see from. System, those who convert are more advantaged than those who do not convert. At this time in history, most do not convert, but those who convert are able to see more rapid wealth generation. They will see more power generation, and they're able to expand much faster. And so this is a secret of Christianity, okay, and that's my main argument to you today. Any questions before I go into the specifics, is this clear to you guys? All right, let's do the PowerPoint. Okay, okay, today we do the rise of the Catholic Church. Okay, so again, what Paul's gonna do is he's gonna negate the power of Jesus. He's gonna imprison, sorry, he's gonna imprison the divine spark in the church. All right, so this is Paul, and there's a lot of mythology around Paul, how he's a martyr who went around the world in order to spread Christianity. Okay, we don't know if it's true or not. If you're Catholic, you believe it's true. The other thing about Paul that's really important is that if you read the New Testament, a third is either written by Paul or about Paul? Okay, there's more about Paul in the New Testament than there's about Jesus. That's why, that's why we say that Paul is a true founder of Christianity. Christianity is religion about Jesus, but not by Jesus. It's by Paul. And what's really important for you to appreciate is what Jesus taught and what Paul taught are very different. In fact, they're opposite. Jesus taught that the Divine Spark is within you. So if you want to save yourself, if you want to go to the kingdom, you must do so yourself. But Paul says, No. Jesus came to us in order to redeem us from our sins, the original sin of disobedience to God, way back in the garden Eden. If you believe in Jesus, you'll be saved. Doesn't matter what you do, but you you you can do as much good as you want, but if you do not believe in Jesus, you will burn in hell. Okay, that's why you must believe in Jesus, and that's also why we must get everyone to believe in Jesus, because by getting anyone to believe in Jesus, we are literally saving them from eternal damnation. As you can see, this is a really good business model, because now you can expand really quickly. Okay, second thing that Jesus taught is, he cannot save you. You can only save yourself. He can guide you. He can give you some poetry that you can decipher, but you must seek truth yourself. And what Paul taught is, don't think for yourself, just do what everyone else does. He believed the most important thing is for the church to be cohesive, okay, for everyone to obey the word of Jesus, which is really the word of Paul. The third thing is, and this is the most this is really important. Jesus teaches us, the rich cannot enter heaven. Why? Because in a heaven, you must focus on your own spiritual rejuvenation. The rich only care about the here and now. They only care about the material acquisition, and as such, they become blind to the spiritual needs. And so they do they cannot enter the kingdom of heaven. Remember, Jesus tells a story of how the God has prepared a great feast for us, but the rich won't go because you busy making money. Paul teaches us, no, no, no, guys, it's the rich which will lead us to the kingdom. Why? Because the rich can finance the spreading of Christianity. What matters is metrics that help us spread Christianity. How many souls are we saving by measuring how many, how many people were converting? Okay, how cohesive is our church? That's all care Paul cares about. Paul's a business person, okay? Jesus is a prophet, but Paul is a business person, and so it is Paul, really, that is the spiritual God of Christianity, not Jesus. Another thing that you need to appreciate is at this time in history, maybe the year 4050,

Prof. Jiang  19:38  
there are lots of different Christianities, because Jesus taught us that the kingdom of heaven is within you, right? So it's all very diverse. It's all very democratic. And what's really important is a lot of the early leaders are women, okay? People like Mary Madeline, they tend to be wealthy and they tend to be very charismatic. As well. But by the time you hit Paul, Christianity, it's anti woman, it's a strict hierarchy, and it's orthodoxy. Okay? So in other words, you may, you may have heard that early Christians were persecuted. Guess what? Guys, they're being persecuted by Paul Okay, they're being pursued by the Romans. They're being pursued by Paul and at this time in history, the Catholic Church, okay? Paul, Paul and Christianity, it's only a very small minority, because for most people, the Christianity of Jesus is much more appealing than the Christianity of Paul. Jesus taught freedom, empowerment, liberation. Paul taught obedience, discipline, sacrifice. Okay, so Jesus is far more appealing, but because Paul is being supported by the Roman Empire, he wins. Okay, what Paul will do is not only persecute other Christianities, but he will quickly spread his Christianity with the help of the Roman Empire. All right. So as you can see, what's gonna happen is in year 30, when when Jesus dies, it's a very small group of people, but it splits really quickly, okay, and Paul will build foundations for this great empire that in about the year 300 reaches its peak. Okay, in about the year 300 what will happen is Christianity becomes the official religion of the Roman Empire, and this is the beginning of the Catholic Church. But it's Paul that built the foundation for this growth. I Azmain, okay. So, as you can see, Jesus, he's spreading his poetry, and it's because his poetry is easy to memorise. This, his poetry spreading really quickly throughout the empire, okay, but what will happen is that once Paul builds the structure of Christianity, the church system based on the paterfamilia system of Romans. It will spread even quicker, and eventually these two Christianities will come into conflict, and eventually Paul's system will win out until it conquers the entire Roman Empire. Okay, all right, so scholars agree that Paul is the founder of Christianity, but there are three mysteries to Paul that scholars can't really answer. Okay, the first question is, why would someone like Paul, who is illiterate and wealthy, Hellenized Jew. Why would he join a movement of illiterate Jewish peasants? Okay, the scars don't really have an answer for this. Second question is, we know that Paul was a fanatical Pharisee. Okay, he was hunting Christians, but then he converts to become a fanatical follower of Jesus. Why would he do that? The third mystery is, and that's the most important, is he spends his entire life promoting Christianity around the Roman Empire. Where did he the money to do this? Because not only did he go, but he also had secretaries who went with him to take notes. Where does the money come from? Okay, so you just do some basic game theory analysis. He's clearly a spy, okay, clearly a spy. He's an agent of a power. The question for us, though, is, who is he working for? The easy answer seems to be the Roman Empire. But in fact, you could also make the argument he's working for the Jewish leaders. Okay, the Jewish priests as well. Okay, so we'll go over this. All right. So what we're gonna do is we're gonna read the Bible now. Okay, now one thing about the Bible that is very confusing is the Bible says that the Jews killed Jesus, and as we discussed last class, the Jews would not kill Jesus for a variety of reasons. Okay, but the main reason is, Jews don't kill each other. Jews do not turn each other over to the Roman authorities. If you commit blasphemy, if you insult their God, they kill you by stoning you. Okay, they don't have a habit of turning people over to the Roman authorities. So we know the Romans killed him, and it's most likely the ones killed him because Jesus, Jesus was a threat to their social structure. But the Bible says that, nope, it was the Jews who killed Jesus. So, Emma, could you read, please? Okay, so this is from John, the Gospel of John, Then Pilate took Jesus upon his pilot. Is the Roman governor who who orders Jesus executed? Mission, okay, Pilate, yeah. Point is Pilate.

Speaker 1  25:04  
Then Pilate took Jesus and had him flogged, and the soldiers wove a crown of thorns and put it on his head, and they dressed him in a purple robe. They kept coming up to him, saying, Hail, King of the Jews, and striking him on the face. Pilate went out again and said to them, Look, I am bringing him out to you to let you know that I can find no case

Prof. Jiang  25:24  
against him. Okay, so what's happening is Jesus is arrested by the Jewish priests, and they accused him of blasphemy, of pretend to be God. They bring him to Pontius Pilate governor, and says, You must execute this man because he has insulted our religion. So punish. Pilate interrogates Jesus, and he doesn't really think he did anything wrong, okay, but to appease the priest, he beats he whips Jesus, and now he's like, You know what? I whipped this guy. I punish him. Now, can you please go away? Okay, keep on going.

Speaker 1  25:57  
Pilate went out again and said to them, Look, I am bringing him out to you to let you know that I can find no case against him. So Jesus came out wearing the crown of thorns and the purple robe, Pilate said to them, here is the man. When the chief priests and the police saw him, they shouted, Crucify him. Crucify him. Pilate said to them, Take Him yourselves and crucify him. I find no case against him. The Jews answered him. We have a law, and according to the law, He ought to die because he had claimed to be the son of

Prof. Jiang  26:25  
Son of God. Okay, so do you understand what's going on? Okay, the Bible claims the Jews killed Jesus. All right, so this t this shows us that the Bible is not that reliable. All right, okay, so let's go into the story of Paul Alan. Can you please? Okay, so let me give you the context. Okay, this is from the Acts of the Apostles, and it's mainly about Paul, and he became a follower of Jesus, and at this time, Paul is persecuting Christians. We don't know why he's persecuting Christians. We don't know what, why the Jews hate the Christians. But Paul is going around persecuting the Christians as a Pharisee, and then on the way to persevering more Christians on the road to Damascus, he a light seizes him, and it's Jesus telling him, Paul, why are you persecuting me and my followers and then that converts? Paul, it makes no sense as a story, okay, but this is what Christians believe. Okay. Can you read Alan?

Speaker 2  27:29  
Meanwhile, Saul still briefing threats and murder against the disciples of the Lord, went to the high priest and asked him for letters to the synagogue.

Prof. Jiang  27:39  
Synagogue, synagogues. The synagogue is a place of worship for diaspora Jews, because Jews worship the temple, right? But the temple is in Jerusalem. So if there, if you're outside Jerusalem, then you go to a synagogue, which basically

Speaker 2  27:54  
Jewish church, synagogues and Damascus, so that if he found any who belong to the way men or women, he might bring them bound to Jerusalem. Now, as he was going along and approaching Damascus, suddenly, a light from Heaven flashed around him. He fell to the ground and heard a voice saying to him, so, so why do you persecute me? He asked, Who are you Lord? The reply came, I am Jesus, whom you are persecuting. But get up and enter the city, and you will be told what you are to do. The men who were travelling with him stood speechless because they heard the voice but saw no one. Saul got up from the ground, and though his eyes were open, he could see nothing. So they led him by the left hand and brought him into Damascus for three days, he was without sight and neither ate nor dreamed.

Prof. Jiang  28:47  
Okay, so this is a miracle, right? This guy hated Christians, and now, because he was blinded, he loves Christians. What you will notice is this is very similar to Plato's Allegory of the Cave, because remember Paul's train in Greek culture, so he knows about Plato, and this is model of the allegory of the cave, where you're in darkness, and suddenly you go out and you're blinded by the light, and then you see the truth. Okay. Another thing that's important is that clearly Jesus favours Paul. What's interesting is that if you read Paul's letters, and we will read his letters, if you read Paul's story, he doesn't really talk about Jesus that much. He doesn't even quote Jesus. Okay, so that's kind of weird. If you know you're a follower of Jesus, but you really don't quote Jesus, and Jesus has a lot of quotations. He really don't talk about Jesus that much, and he doesn't really refer to the story that much in in his letters. The other thing that I will note is that you read Jesus, okay, Jesus doesn't really talk about good and evil. Doesn't really talk about the Bible. Paul doesn't really talk himself a lot, of himself as a Son God, but Paul will talk about this a lot. Okay, all right, so, again, Paul's amazing because you go on three different voyages, missionary journeys around the Roman Empire in order to spread the gospel of Jesus. This is very, very hard work. It's also expensive work, because you can see how he's going from different cities, he's going to synagogues and he's preaching the gospel. Okay? What? What's important for us to understand is that, as Paul is doing this, he's winning a lot of converts because he's but he's coming in conflict with James the Just. Remember, James is the just is the brother of Jesus who inherits the movement. James the Just is in Jerusalem, and Paul is going around and spreading the gospel of Jesus. And so James and James the Just hears about this, and people are saying to him, Paul's saying, Jesus is God. Is Jesus God? And Jesus is like, of course, he's not God. He's my brother, man. And so, so there's all this conflict, and eventually what will happen is it forces Paul to confront James the Just in Jerusalem, according to Bible, the main conflict is one of ideology. Okay, so the Bible says that James the judge and Paul both agree that Jesus is God, the Son of God who's come to our planet to redeem us. But James the judge believes what's important is to maintain the faith within the Jewish tradition, whereas Paul wants to expand this tradition outside the Jewish tradition to encompass the Greeks as well and the Romans as well. Okay, the gene the Gentiles, and that's where the conflict arises. And so the main point of conflict is one of circumcision. Because, remember, Jews circumcise themselves, but the Greeks and Romans Do not circumcise themselves. This is important, because in this time, most of these cities are Greek cities. Greek cities have a place called gymnasium where men go to play sports, but you play sports naked. So if you're a Jewish man, they know automatically you're Jewish. So superstition is a huge point of division between the Gentiles and the Jews. And Paul's point is that you want to convert, you don't have to circumcise. And so the Jews are complaining to Jesus and says, Hey, Paul is subverting our tradition. He's saying that Jewish man is he's saying that Greek man can come and and follow region religion while being without being circumcised. Okay? And so there's a lot come between Jesus, just and Paul. So Paul actually goes to Jerusalem, and he confronts James the judge, and they haven't come to an agreement with each other. Okay, so when Paul goes to Jerusalem, people recognise him, and so the Amal wants to kill him. Okay, can you

Speaker 1  33:01  
read Amber? Up to this point, they listened to him, but then they shouted away with such a fellow from the earth, for he shall not be allowed to live. And while they were shouting, throwing off their cloaks and tossing dust into the air, the tribune directed that he was to be brought into the barracks, and ordered him to be examined by flogging to find out the reason for this outcry against him, but when they had tied him up with with songs, sorry, Paul said to the centrion, who was standing by, is it illegal? Is it legal for you to flog a Roman citizen who is uncondemned? When the centrion heard that, he went to the Tribune and said to him, What are you about to do? This man is a Roman citizen. The tribune came to ask Paul tell me, are you Roman citizen? And he said, Yes. The tribune answered, it cost me a large sum of money to get my citizenship. Paul said, but I was born a citizen. Immediately, those who were about to examine him drew back from him, and the tribune also was afraid, for he realised that Paul was Roman citizen and that he had found him. Okay, so

Prof. Jiang  34:02  
certain things to notice about, about this running. First of all, you can see it's very anti Jewish. The Jews just want to kill Paul for no particular reason, okay, Paul speaking the truth, and the Jews want to kill him. Okay? It's a Jewish mob. That's his first thing. Second thing is that it's very poor woman, right? It's the Roman soldier come and save Paul from the mob. And this story is very similar, in fact, the story of Jesus. So Jesus was arrested, and the mob wants to kill him, right? And the Romans want to save Jesus, but they can't. They cannot stop the mob. But Paul is the same situation with Paul, what says Paul says he is a Roman citizen. Okay, so that's what saves him. Rome saves Paul. God can't save Jesus, but Rome says saves Paul. Okay, so this is propaganda, and this propaganda written, of course, for Hannah's Jews like Paul. Paul who are waving between loyalty to Rome or loyalty to the Jewish tradition. And what Paul says is, the solution is to become a Christian, because I can become both. You cannot become like me, loyal to the Jewish tradition, but also loyal to Rome. Okay. All right, Alan, can you read please?

Unknown Speaker  35:24  
When we came into Roman, Paul

Prof. Jiang  35:27  
was allowed, okay, sorry, sorry, sorry, I need set this up. Okay, so the Romans say to Paul, why do the Jews want to kill you? And Paul says, because they think I think I'm installing their religion. And Paul says, I'm a Roman citizen, so I want an audience with the Emperor. Only Emperor can decide my fate. So the Romans sent him with a soldier escort back to Rome. Okay, and this is how the excellent apostles ends. Okay. Can you read when we came

Speaker 2  35:56  
into Rome, Paul was allowed to live by himself with the soldiers who was guarding him. Three days later, he called together the local leaders of the Jews. When they had assembled, he said to them, brothers, though I had done nothing against our people or the customs of all ancestors, yet I was arrested in Jerusalem and handed over to the Romans when they had examined me, the Romans wanted to release me because there were no reasons for the death penalty in my case. But when the Jews objected, I was compelled to appeal to the Emperor, even though I had no charge to bring against my nation.

Prof. Jiang  36:35  
Okay, this is really interesting. Okay, this is changing the story. Before Paul said that he wants to get returned to Rome in order to face judgement from the Emperor. And what Paul's saying now is, you Jews attacked me, and if I wanted to, I could completely emperor and bring charges against you Jews. Okay, so he's seen his story. He's showing how powerful he is Okay, keep on going

Speaker 2  37:03  
for this reason. Therefore, I had asked to see you and speak with you, since it is for the sake of the hope of Israel that I am bound with this chain. Okay, so he's

Prof. Jiang  37:13  
saying, listen, those guys in Jerusalem harass me. And so I've come back to Rome, and I want to speak to you Jewish leaders, and let's see. Let's see if we can work together, because you pissed me off in Rome, I can unleash the empire on you. Okay, so he's now threatening these Jewish elders, come on going.

Speaker 2  37:34  
They replied. We have received no letter from Judah from about you, and none of brothers coming here has reported or spoken anything evil about you, but we would like to hear from you what you think for with regard to this sect, we know that everywhere it is spoken against, okay?

Prof. Jiang  37:53  
So what they're saying is it's all misunderstanding. Paul, okay, we don't know what's going on. Why don't you tell us what's going on? Keep on going after

Speaker 2  38:01  
they had set a day to meet with him, they came to him at his longings in great numbers. Okay, so basically, all the

Prof. Jiang  38:07  
Jewish leaders have to come because they understand that Paul represents the Empire. Okay, keep on

Speaker 2  38:12  
going from morning until evening. He explained the matter to them, testifying to the kingdom of God and trying to convince them about Jesus, both from the law of Moses and from

Prof. Jiang  38:25  
the prophets. So again, what Paul's saying is that Jesus is the fulfilment of the Bible, his fulfilment of prophecy. He is the Messiah.

Speaker 2  38:34  
Some were convinced by what he had just what he had said, while others refused to believe.

Prof. Jiang  38:39  
Okay, so now some of these Jewish leaders are being converted by Paul. They are now moving towards the Christian faith. That's how powerful Paul is. Okay, keep on going. So they

Speaker 2  38:48  
disagree with each other, and as they were leaving, Paul made one further statement, the Holy Spirit was right in saying to your ancestor through the prophet Isaiah. Isaiah go to this people and say, you will indeed listen but never understand, and you will indeed look but never perceive. For this people, heart has grown dull, and their ears are hard of hearing, and they have shut their eyes, and they might not look with their eyes and listen with their ears and understand with their heart, and turn and I will hear them. Let it be known to you then that as salvation of God had been sent to the Gentiles, they will listen. Okay, so he's saying

Prof. Jiang  39:35  
so he's convincing some Jewish leaders to convert, right? But not all convert. And so Paul gets pissed off and says, You Jews are so stubborn you don't get it, man, okay, but don't worry, if you don't get it, the Gentiles, the Greeks and Romans will get it. We will win eventually. Okay, keep on going. He lived

Speaker 2  39:55  
there two whole years at his own expense. And welcome all who come. To him proclaiming the kingdom of God and teaching about the Lord Jesus Christ with all boldness and without hardness.

Prof. Jiang  40:07  
Okay, so something I will point out is this, it looks like Paul is an agent of Rome. Okay, it looks like he represents the empire. But why would he write in such a way as to be so blatant? And so you can also argue that Paul could be a double agent. Okay, he pretends to be an agent of spy for Rome, but he's actually working for the Jewish leadership. Why would why would the Jewish leader support Paul? Because by spreading Christianity, he's spreading the Bible, and he and the Bible says that Jews are God's chosen people, so he's elevating the status of Jews in Rome. Okay, so it's not as simple as it looks from this if you just read it, it seems like Paul is a spy for Rome. You think much more deeply about what he's doing. Why would he be so blatant and tell people, ha, I represent the Empire. Well, maybe because he's being a real maybe because he's a double agent, right? The thing that you have to remember about spies is they have no loyalties. They are double agents. They are triple agents. They're always switching loyalties back and forth. Okay? So now what I want to do is, I want to go into the actual thinking and writing of Paul. This is Romans, which is one of his major letters. And in these letters, what he's going to do is he's going to articulate to you this new philosophy of Christianity. Okay, these, these letters become the basis for the Catholic Church. Okay, so can you read Amber?

Speaker 1  41:44  
Please. Circumcision indeed is a value. Is a value if you obey the law, but if you break the law, your circumcision has become uncircumcision. So if those who are uncircumcised keep the requirements of the law, will not their uncircumcision be regarded as circumcision.

Prof. Jiang  42:01  
Okay, so stop. So this is Paul, and what you can see is he's a master of rhetoric, okay, the Jews are very clear. If you are Jewish, you must be circumcised, because circumcision is a is the sign of a covenant between our people and God. If you're not circumcised, you're not Jewish. And what Paul says, No, what matters is your heart. What matters is your spirit. You have faith in God. That's what matters. Okay, keep on going. Then those who are

Speaker 1  42:31  
physically uncircumcised but keep the law will condemn you that that have the written code and circumcision, but break the law. For a person is not a Jew who is one outwardly, nor is true. Circumcision is something external and physical. Rather a person is a Jew who is one inwardly and real. Circumcision is a matter of the heart. It is spiritual and not literal. Such a person receives praise not from others, but from God. Then what advantage has Jews? Okay?

Prof. Jiang  42:59  
So do you guys understand? This is rhetoric, right? This is sophistry, where he's changing the definition of the word. We're changing the idea of the word circumcision. Is a covenant between the Jews and God. And what Paul says, what matters is not the physical act. What matters is the faith in God. Okay, that's a covenant, all right? And as such, you do not have to be circumcised, okay? Can you read Alan?

Speaker 2  43:32  
But now, apart from law, the righteousness of God has been disclosed and is tested by the law and the prophets. The righteousness of God through faith in Jesus, Christ, for all who believe, for there is no distinction. Since all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God, they are now justified by his grace as a gift, though the redemption that is in Christ, Jesus, whom God put forward as a sacrifice of Atonement by His blood effective through faith. He did this to show His righteousness, because in his divine forbear forbearance, he had passed over the sins previously committed. It was to prove at the present time that he himself is righteous and that that he justifies the one who has faith

Prof. Jiang  44:20  
in Jesus. Okay, so Jews believe what's important is to follow the laws, to be circumcised, to rest on the Sabbath, to only marry within the tribe. And what Paul says is, what's important is your belief in Jesus, your belief that Jesus came in order to redeem us from our sins, the original sin. Okay, that's what matters now, before it was these laws, before it was these actions, and now what matters is what you truly believe. Okay, there's only believe in Jesus that can save you. You can do as mighty good works as you want. You can follow as many laws as you want. Does that matter? So the key is faith in Jesus. Okay, all right. Okay, can you read Yes?

Speaker 1  45:14  
And so, brothers and sisters, I could not speak to you as spiritual people, but rather as people of the flesh. As infants in Christ, I fed you with milk, not solid food, for you were not ready for solid food. Even now you are still not ready for you are still of the flesh. For as long as there is jealousy and quarrelling among you, are you not of the flesh and behaving accordingly, according to human inclinations. For when one says, I belong to Paul and another, I belong to Apollos. Are you not merely human?

Prof. Jiang  45:44  
Okay, so what Paul is doing is he's going around and corrupting the teachings of Jesus. And other people are calling out. Carmen says, Paul, this is not what Jesus taught. Okay? And so what Paul's saying is, guys, guys, we should argue, okay? Because who's right? Jesus is right. Okay, it's not what you say. Is that what I say, it's what Jesus says. So this is, again, it's sophistry, it's rhetoric. He's positioning himself above the debate, rather than engaging debate directly and saying, like, what did that Jesus actually teach and what are the true teachings? Paul saying, what's important is to obey Jesus. Okay, what's important is obedience, not debate. Keep on going.

Speaker 1  46:24  
What then is Apollos? What is Paul? Servants through whom you came to believe, asked the Lord assigned to each I planted, Apollos watered, but God gave the growth. So neither the one who plants nor the one who waters is anything but only God who gives the growth. The one who plants and the one who waters have a common purpose, and each will receive weight according to the labour of each For we are God's servants working together. You are God's field, God's building.

Prof. Jiang  46:50  
Okay, so Paul is evil. Okay, everyone's saying to Paul, Paul, you're corrupting the teachings of Jesus. And Paul is saying, no, what matters is we spread the message of Jesus. And everyone's saying, but what's the message of Jesus? Paul said, it doesn't matter. What matters is the proof of Jesus. Okay, this is sophistry.

Speaker 1  47:11  
I'm going according to the grace of God given to me like a skilled master builder, I laid a foundation and someone else is building on it. Each builder must choose with care how to build on it. For no one can lay any foundation other than the one that has been laid. That foundation is Jesus Christ. Now, if anyone builds on the foundation with gold, silver, precious stones, wood, hay, straw, the work of each builder will become visible for the day. Will disclose it, because it will be revealed with fire. And the fire will test what sort of work he has done. If what has been built onto the foundation survives, the builder will receive a reward. If the work is burned up, the builder will suffer, suffer loss. The builder would be saved, but only as through fire. Okay, so what Paul

Prof. Jiang  47:55  
saying is this, we're all going to work together to spread the message of Jesus. You may believe Jesus says one thing, I believe another thing, but let's not argue. Okay, let's just keep on spraying the word of Jesus, and we'll see which person has the biggest charge, and we'll know who's right. Okay, so he's using the metric of busy success, of wealth, of material acquisition to justify his faith in Jesus, okay? And this is the opposite of what Jesus taught as we were saying, Paul, this is not what Jesus taught us. Paul is like, no, no, we're gonna see who wins out in the end. Okay, get on going.

Speaker 1  48:29  
Do not know that you are God's temple, and that God's Spirit dwells in you. If anyone destroys God's temple, God will destroy that person. For God's temple is holy, and you are the temple. Do not deceive yourself. If you think that you are wise in this age, you should become fools so that you may become wise. For the wisdom of this world is foolishness with God. For it is written, He catches the wise in their craftiness, and again, the Lord knows the thought thoughts of the wise that they are futile. So let no one boast about human leaders. For All things are yours, whether Paul or Apollos or Cephas or the world of life or death or the present or the future, all belong to you, and you belong to Christ, and Christ belongs

Prof. Jiang  49:17  
to God. So he's very clever. He's saying, yes, Jesus taught us that God's Spirit dwells in you. What this means isn't that you have free will. What it means is you don't have free will because you must do the work of God, which is to spread the message of God, which is to extend the power of God in this world. Okay, so you see how this is sophistry, right? He's tricking people. He's deceiving people. Jesus taught you the light is within you, and therefore you are, you know God. You just trust yourself, and that's good. And then what Paul says, No, you are a tool of God. Okay, keep on going.

Speaker 1  49:55  
Think of us in this way, as servants of Christ and stewards of God's mysteries. We're. Over it is required of stewards that they be found trustworthy, but with me, it is a very small thing that I should be judged by you or by any human court. I do not even judge myself. Okay, okay, all right,

Prof. Jiang  50:11  
so let's keep on going. Alan, can you read please?

Speaker 2  50:17  
Were you a slave when caught? Do not be concerned about it, even if you can gain your freedom, make use of your present condition now more than ever, for whoever was caught in the Lord as a slave is a freed person belonging to the Lord, just as whoever was freed when caught as a slave of Christ, you were bought with a price. Do not become slave of human masters in whatever condition you were called brothers and sisters, there

Prof. Jiang  50:44  
remain with God. Wait, so Paul's been very clever again, okay? Because this message is appealing to slaves. Jesus taught the slave you're free, and the slaves say to Paul, we're free, right? And Paul says, you are free, but you are slave to God. You understand? Okay, therefore no human can be a master of you, because you are all slaves to God. He's confusing people. Okay, can you keep on reading? For though

Speaker 2  51:11  
I am free with respect to all, I have made myself a slave to all so that I might wing more of them to the Jews. I become as a Jew in order to win Jews to those under the law, I become as one under the law, under the law, though I myself I'm not under the law, so that I might wing those under the law to those outside the law. I became at one outside the law. Though I am not free from God's law, but I'm under Christ's law so that I might win those outside the law. To the weak. I become weak so that I might win the weak. I become all things to all people that I might by all means, save some. I do it all for the sake of the Gospel, so that I may share in its blessing. Do not know that in a race, the runners all compete, but only one receives the prize. Run in such a way that you may wing it. Athletes exercise self control in all things they do not they do it to receive a parish, perishable wealth, but we and we and imperishable one. So I do not run aimlessly, nor do I box as though beating the air, but I punish my body and enslave it, so that after proclaiming to others, I myself should not be disqualified.

Prof. Jiang  52:34  
So it's always like a pep rally, right? He's a business person. He's telling his workers, go out and sell those damn hamburgers. Man, I don't care what you do. I don't care how many lies you tell. Go sell those hamburgers. Pretend they're healthy. Okay, pretend you love hamburgers. Just pretend. What matters is you go sell those hamburgers and guess what? Man, whoever says those hamburgers, get a car, okay, but this is better than car, because this is the reward. Is heaven, eternal paradise, guys. So go ahead and sell those hamburgers. All right. All right. Can you read for you to highlight it apart.

Speaker 1  53:20  
Amber, now in the following instructions, I do not commend you, because when you come together, it is not for the better, but for the worse. For to begin with, when you come together as a church, I hear that there are divisions among you, and to some extent, I believe it indeed there have to be faction among you, for only so will it become clear who among you are genuine when you when you come together, it is not really to eat the Lord's Supper, for when the time comes, comes to eat, each of you goes ahead with your your own supper, and one goes hungry and another become drunk. What do you not have homes to eat and drink in, or do you show contempt for the Church of God and humiliate those who have nothing? What should I say to you? Should I commend you? In this matter, I do not commend you.

Prof. Jiang  54:13  
Okay, so what he's saying is this, when you come to when you come to a church, it's very important that you obey the ritual. Okay? The ritual is communion, the Eucharist, and you, we must remember, this is a ritual where you must follow the exact protocols. If you do not, then there's no point in coming to church. So the church is not a place to discuss Jesus, not to debate Jesus, but to worship Jesus.

Speaker 1  54:38  
Okay, before I received, received from the Lord what I also handed on to you. And the Lord Jesus, on the night, when he was betrayed, took a loaf of bread, and when He had given thanks, He broke it and said, This is my body. That is for, for you do this in remembrance of me in the same way. He took the cup also After supper, saying, This cup is the new covenant in my blood. Do this as often as you drink it in remembrance of me. For as often as you eat this bread and drink this cup, you proclaim the Lord's death until He comes. Whoever therefore eats the bread of drink, eat the bread or drink the cup of the Lord in an unworthy manner, will be answerable for the body and blood of the Lord, Examine yourselves and only then eat the bread and drink from of the cup for all who eat and drink with discerning, without discerning the body, eat and drink judgement against themselves. For this reason, May a few are weak and ill, and some have died. But if we judge ourselves, we will not be judged. But when we are judged by the Lord, we are disciplined, so that we may not be condemned along with the world. So then my brother and sisters, when you come together to eat, wait for one another. If you are hungry, eat at home, so that when you come together, it will not be for your condemnation, about, about the other things I will give instruction, what when I come okay?

Prof. Jiang  56:08  
So this is a really important ritual. It's the most important ritual in Christianity called the Eucharist, Thanksgiving. Okay? And in this it's basically they eat some bread and they drink some wine, and they believe it is the flesh and blood of Jesus. So Jesus is entering them, okay? And as you can imagine, what they're doing really is negating divine spark in you. Divine Spark is free. It's individual, it's independent. When you partake in the body of Jesus, you become one with everyone else, okay, that negates your individuality. That indicates a spark within you, and you become just a church itself, okay? And that's the idea of the Eucharist to destroy your individuality, all right? And so when Christians do this, they literally believe the bread they're eating is the body of Christ, of Jesus. So Jesus is entering into you and taking you over. Okay? It's possession by Jesus. Yes.

Speaker 3  57:06  
Do we see this as a way that they abuse or exploit Jesus? Because they're just eating their body, although the body of Jesus is hollow.

Prof. Jiang  57:15  
No, no. The idea here is that Jesus is your master, okay? And when you partake in Jesus, you become a part of Jesus, and therefore you must obey exactly what he wants. Okay, all right, so this is confusing, because it's cannibalism, okay, but as I told before, this is actually a very common thing among the Greek mystery cult, where they come together and they believe that when they eat food, they're actually eating the body of Dionysus. And Dionysus, his energy is up, is being consumed into you. Okay, what's important for us to appreciate is like these mystery cults are demonic. Okay, so what else they do is they will have ritual sacrifices where they will tear people apart and consume the flesh. Okay, so this is from a painting from the Euphrates play describing one of these mystery cults. Okay, so they will actually tear a person's body apart to replicate the death of Dionysus, and they consume the body part. And guess what? Guys, the secrets of that is still due to slay. Okay, so, but, but what's important understand is this actually has a long tradition. So if you go back to 15,000 years to Europe in the magdalenian age, cannibalism was actually very common. It was common for religious purposes. So maybe there was someone that you loved and he died, what you would do is you consume his body when he died in order to remember him forever, okay, so that you would have an eternal communion with Him, because his soul would go into spirit world. But if you had his body right? He would always communicate with you, and that's the idea of commemorating Jesus, like in such a way when you consume Jesus, Jesus is always with you. He is now taking possession over your body. You are now just a body for Jesus. Okay, does that make sense? You've lost your individuality, you've lost your freedom. You are now completely possessed by Jesus when you are when you engage in the Eucharist. Okay, yes,

Speaker 3  59:28  
so the so during that time, nobody found that, like this, is disobeying the original belief of Jesus, like Paul, is just using of people's to obey.

Prof. Jiang  59:42  
Yeah, that's a good question. Okay? Most people at this time think Paul is just evil, okay? He's like, this is not what Jesus taught us. Jesus taught us to believe in ourselves. Jesus would never teach us this demonic thing of sacrifice, okay? Jesus came to teach us like, I don't sacrifice. He was like. Rights, it's all evil. Okay? He got rid of that. But again, so at this time in history, Paul's Church, Paul's followers are only limited amount. Okay, very few people. But he doesn't care, because he's building the found the blueprint for an empire. Does that make sense? Okay? So the Romans forces religion. Everyone now, everyone has to obey this. You understand, if you actually from first principles, try to convince people the Catholic Church is right. You can't really convince that many people. But guess what? Guys? Doesn't matter because most people are born into the Catholic Church. So they are born believing this stuff. Okay? So they can't really think for themselves, all right. But also remember, cannibalism is very common throughout history. So these are the Aztecs who will engage in canonism in order to prepare for war, in order to sacrifice others for the gods. Okay, again, this is the Magdalene culture, and we found lots of places where they engage in canonism during funerals, okay? And as you can see, it's very common. It's very common throughout the world at this time. And it makes sense, if you think about it, right? If this person is someone you love, and he was very special to you, and you want him to still help you in life, to guide you in life, and you consume his body, a part of his body, then he'll stay with you forever, okay? And this is a way to build group cohesion in this time. Well, this is the Ice Age, so it's very hard to survive. And but of course, not everyone practices this as well. Okay, the red are those who practice cannibalism during funerals. The blue are just those who just bury the body and don't practice cannibalism. So what you're not taught is among the elite, this sort of stuff goes on a lot. So this is 19th century in Victorian Britain. And this is, you know, the British Empire. And guess what? Guys, what they like to do is they like to steal mummies from Egypt and eat these mummies, because they believe that these mummies had some magic qualities. Okay, so this goes back to the 19th century, and you think to yourself, oh, you know what? In the 12th century, we are so much more advanced. We don't do this crap anymore, right? Unfortunately, this is Albert Einstein's brain. Albert Einstein, before he died, said, Please, please. What will you do? Do not dissect my brain. Okay? I know. I know you think I'm a greatest genius in the world, and you want to know how my brain works, but I'm telling you right now, my brain is so different from your brain, please. Whatever you do, do not dissect my brain. So of course, a doctor steals his brain and cuts it into different pieces. Okay, now let me ask you this question. Let's just say this doctor would take his brain and make some medicine out of it. Okay? He takes his brain, cuts up into like, other different parts, and then he takes this medicine and he sells it to rich people for million dollars. Could he find 100 rich people who pay a million dollar fee access brain? Yes, okay, so I was like, here, I'm telling you, the rich are insane. All right, my wife tells me that when I die, it's possible they might want to dissect my brain as well. So please don't do so okay, because my brain's no different from anyone else's brain, you won't find the secret my creativity with my brain. All right. All right. So, yep. Al, can you read, please?

Speaker 2  1:03:45  
Indeed, the body does not consist of one member, but of many. If the foot would say, because I am not a band, I do not belong to the body, that will not make it any less a part of the body. And if the air would say, because I'm not an eye, I do not belong to the body, that will not make it any less a part of the body. If the whole body were an eye, where would the pairing be? If the whole body were pairing, where would the sense of smell be, but as it is, God arranging the member of the body, each one of them, as he choose. If all were single members, where would the body be? As it is, there are many members, yet one body, the eye cannot say to the hand, I have no need of you, nor against the head to the feet. I have no need of you. On the contrary, the members of the body that seems to be weaker are indispensable, and those members of the body that we think last, let me see honourable we close. With greater honour, and our last respectable members are treated with greater respects, whereas our more respectable members do not need this. But God has so arranged the body, giving the greater honour to the inferior member that there that the there may be no dissent, dissension, dissension within the body, but the members may have the same care for one another. If one member suffers, all suffers together with it. If one member is honoured, all rejoice together

Prof. Jiang  1:05:39  
with it. Okay? So what he's saying is this okay? When you consume the body of Christ, you've all consumed a part of him, right? And so we need to come together as a people, as a church, to form the whole body of Jesus. And that means that you must do what others tell you to do. Okay? This requires complete obedience if we are to resurrect Jesus in our church? Does that make sense? Guys? Okay, keep on going.

Speaker 2  1:06:03  
Now you are the body of Christ, and individually member of it, and God has appointed in the church. First, Postlets, second, prophets, third, teachers, then deeds of power, then gifts of healing, form of assistance, form of leadership, various kind of tongues are all all Are all apostles, Are all prophets, are all teachers. Do you all work miracles? Do you all possess gifts of healing? Do you all speak in tongues? Do you all enter interpret, but strive for the greater gift, as I will show you a still more

Prof. Jiang  1:06:44  
excellent way. Okay, so do you understand what's going on? Okay? No matter who you are and what you do, what's important is your sacrifice to Jesus to obey him completely. Okay, so this is all ordained by Jesus. All right, Emma, can you read the yellow please?

Speaker 1  1:07:01  
Love is patient. Love is kind. Love is not envious or boastful or arrogant or rude. It does not insist on its own way. It is not irritable, irritable and resentful. It does not rejoice in wrongdoing, but rejoice in the truth. It bears all things, believes, all things, hopes, all things, endears, all things, love never ends. But as for prophecies, they will come to an end. As for tongues, they will cease. As for knowledge, it will come to an end. For we all know only in part, and we prophesy only in part, but when the complete comes, the partial will come to an end. When I was a child, I spoke like a child. I thought like a child. I reasoned like a child. When I became an adult, I put an end to childish ways. For now, we see in a mirror dimly, but then we will see face to face. Now I know only in part, then I will know fully even as I have been fully known. And now faith, hope and love abide these three, and the greatest of these is love. Okay, so you

Prof. Jiang  1:08:03  
understand Paul does sophistry. So you think the word is love, great love. We love Jesus. The word actually means obedience, right? If you join a church, what is required for you is complete obedience to Jesus, to understand that you are now a slave to Jesus. Remember, when we commit the original sin, when we did evil, we became slaves to the devil. When Jesus killed us, it's because he sorry. When Jesus died, it was to ransom us from the devil. So now we are slaves to Jesus, and therefore we must obey him completely. Okay? No argument, no opinion, no individuality, individuality, just complete obedience to Jesus. So you can see the power of this, right? He switches these words. He's saying that slavery is now love. Okay, when a human master enslaves you, that's evil. When Jesus enslaves you, it's good because now it's love. It means Jesus loves you, that's why he enslaves you, but now, because He loves you, you must obey him completely, and that means never ever question the authority of the Church. Never do that, because that's evil. Okay, all right, can you read Alan?

Speaker 2  1:09:19  
What I'm saying, brothers and sisters as this flesh and blood, blood cannot inherit the kingdom of God, nor does a perishable inherit the imperishable. Listen, I will tell you a mystery. We will not all die, but we will all be changed in the moment, in the twinkling of an eye at the last trump trumpet for the trumpet when sound and the dead will be raised imperishable and we will be changed. For this perishable body must put on imperishably, and this mortal body must put on immortal, immortality, when this perishable body put. Puts on imperishable, imperishability. And this moral body, mortal body, puts an immortal immortality, then the saying that is written will be fulfilled. Death has been swallowed up in victory. Where O Death is your victory, where O Death is your sting. The sting of death is sin, and the power of sin is the law. But thanks be to God, who gives us victory through our Lord, Jesus Christ, therefore my beloved be steadfast and movable, always exceeding in the works of the Lord, because you know that in the Lord, your labour is not too vain. So this

Prof. Jiang  1:10:45  
is why you must obey him completely, because now you are guaranteed access to heaven, eternal paradise. Okay, pretty good deal, right. Be a slave for 40 years, 50 years. Bet be the best hard working slave for the next 4050, years, and then you have eternal paradise, because that is Jesus promised to you, okay, the defeat of death,

Speaker 3  1:11:09  
I think, according to the original belief of Jesus, which Jesus led us to pursue our divine spark, right? That's the real way to have it, but, but doing this, I think like after people die, they will find out that they cannot really go to heaven because they are slaves.

Prof. Jiang  1:11:25  
Yeah, no one cares. Yeah, right. It doesn't matter because you're dead, right? Because the entire point of the system is to extract as much energy out of you as possible while you're alive, right? Because Paul's real customers are the patriarchs. It's the patriarchs who are paying for this and the patriarchs who will force their slaves to convert to this religion. Okay, so maybe the slaves don't buy this, but their children will, because the children will be brainwashed into this, okay, and this explains why the Catholic Church is most powerful organisation today. All right. So now that we've gone into how he actually thinks, let's go over to his psychology. Okay, so what motivated Paul to do what he did? Because he worked really hard. And so there are three possible explanations. The first explanation is he was a Roman agent, and his mission was to destroy methodic Judaism from within. What we'll learn next class is that Judaism is a huge problem for the Romans, and so while the Jews are praying for Messiah of war, Paul says, no, no, Jesus was Messiah of peace. Okay, so he's trying to subvert the Jews from within. But you could also argue that Paul was actually a Jewish spy who was trying to subvert the Roman Empire by spreading the Jewish faith. Okay, you could also argue that. I would argue it's both. Both are true, right? The real so I think that what really happened is Paul had a message and calling to create his own religious empire. Okay? He wanted to become god himself. So there's a famous joke. The joke goes like this, God and Satan have an argument. God says, My people, the humans, have found religion, therefore you've lost and Satan says, well, I'll just organise it. Okay? I'll create churches out of it. And that's what Paul did. Jesus came to tell us the truth, and Paul says, I'll use this truth and I'll make an empire out of it. Okay, all right, so there's an analogy here. This is, his name is Ray Kroc, and he created the Empire McDonald's. Okay, how did he do so, he took an idea McDonald's, and he went around America and he created McDonald's. Okay? So McDonald's is like, it's like the church. If you go to McDonald's anywhere in the world, it's the same, it's almost the same building, same menu. Okay, so it so it follows a very similar pattern to Paul's building of the church. Paul was able to succeed because he's because he spread a religion. Red Cross succeeded because he also spread a religion as well. All right, so what he did was, I convinced people to buy, to to eat hamburgers. He didn't need to do that. What he needed, what he needed to do was convince small business owners to invest McDonald's, to buy the franchise on McDonald's by spreading the idea of of the gospel of wealth. If you invest in me, if you build, if you open McDonald's, you'll become wealthy. And that is paradise. Okay? So basically, Ray Kroc and Paul were doing the same thing. All right, so Paul has his business idea. Let's just take Jesus and show him an empire. And so he's gonna make different sales pitches to different people. Okay? So we're gonna imagine, okay, and this is a thought experiment. It didn't really happen. We're gonna imagine Paul making a pitch to the Roman patriarchs, right? He's saying, why should you invest in me? Because one, we will cause debate and division within. The Jewish Diaspora, okay? So some will convert, but some will not. But who cares? Because now they're fighting each other, not fighting us, because that's number one. Number two is we will make their messiah of war into messiah of peace, okay? And that will weaken their resolve. And the third is we can now spiritually enslave the people, and they'll work harder for us. So that's a sales pitch of Paul to the Romans, but there's also sales pitch he can make to the Jewish leaders as well. Let us spread our faith to the Gentiles and elevate our status as a chosen people. Okay, let us make our Torah and Jerusalem divine in the eyes of the world. And guess what? It worked, right? Even today, everyone thinks that Jerusalem is the holy city in the world. Let us make ourselves a service of the empire and ally with a Roman patriarchy so that we can subvert them from within, right? And it worked. Now, not all Jews did this, but a lot did follow Paul into Christianity. Christianity is a platform for the Jews and the Romans work together, all right. But now what's Paul is going to make a sales pitch to the Greeks and the Jews, okay? And this what he says, a few decades of obedience for turning the joint paradise, right? That's number one. Number two is it, shoot a joint. YOU to join. You know that you don't think it's different size, okay? And the third is, Jesus will return any day now. So Hurd, before it's too late, guys, 50% off today. All right, do it now? 50% off. All right, that was, that's literally his message, right? And that's why he's so successful. 50% off. All right. So what this is Augustine, okay? And this is after the Catholic church becomes the official religion of Roman Empire. And what Augustine will do is he will write a book called City of God, and He will put the Catholic Church above Rome, okay? Because Rome is just a temporal, earthly city, but Jerusalem is the vine city. Me saying that the Catholic Church is now Jerusalem. We don't need to have an empire anymore, because now we have the Catholic Church. Okay, the Catholic Church is a community of believers. As long as you believe in Jesus, you'll be saved. So obviously, it's gonna take Paul's ideas and systemize it to create the Catholic Church. Okay, so, Emma, can you read?

Speaker 1  1:17:18  
Please? It was in secret that the first human beings began to be evil, and the result was that they slipped into open disobedience. Okay, so this is

Prof. Jiang  1:17:29  
really important. Jesus said there's divine spark in us, right? All in sense, yes, there's a divine spark, but it's from Satan. Guys. It's not from God, it's from Satan. That's why we cannot trust thine spark because we're evil. Keep on going, for they will

Speaker 1  1:17:44  
not have arrived at the evil act if an evil would have not preceded it. Now could anything but pride have been the start of the evil will? For pride is the start of every

Prof. Jiang  1:17:54  
kind of sin. So you know, Jesus says to to follow your own heart, right? And obviously says, no, no, no. That leads to pride. And pride is evil. Pride means you want me better than God. Pride means you want to kill God. Therefore it is inherently evil, therefore the heart inside you comes from Satan. Okay, keep on going.

Speaker 1  1:18:18  
And what is pride, except along for a preserved kind of exaltation. For it is a preserved kind of exaltation to abandon the basis on which the mind should be firmly fixed and to become as it were, based on oneself and still remain. This happens when a man is too pleased with himself, and the man is self complacent, when he deserts that changeless good in which, rather than in himself, he ought to have found his satisfaction. This desertion is voluntary. For if the will had remained unshaken in its love of the higher, changeless good, which shed on it light to see and kindled in it, fire to love, it would not have been diverted from this love to follow its own pleasure, and the will would not have been so darkened and chilled in consequence as to let the woman believe that the serpent had spoken to the truth and the man to put his wife's will above God's commandment and to suppose that his was of venial, venial transgression when he refused to desert his life's companion, companion, even though the refusal entailed companionship is insane. Okay? So we

Prof. Jiang  1:19:31  
are We exist to obey God. All right. Jesus taught us that we exist in order to be creative, in order to seek truth for ourselves, but Alexander Paul teaches us that we exist in order to obey God. Why? Because we cannot trust ourselves.

Speaker 1  1:19:46  
Okay. Yeah, question, so does that mean the believers of the Catholic Church should not take pride in their identity as a part of the like a part of the church or. Or does that also mean they cannot be well in a way, they can't find satisfaction and partaking in the great mission of the Catholic Church.

Prof. Jiang  1:20:11  
Okay? So the Catholic Church has certain teachings. Okay? The first teaching is the idea of original sin, which is, we are born evil this Christ that redeems us. That's number one. Number two is we cannot think for ourselves because we will be led astray by the devil. We must listen to the priest. We should not read the Bible for ourselves, because we'll get confused by it. Okay, all right, and that's what leads to personal reformation. Okay, so and look and the priests are the representative, representatives of God. On Earth, the Pope has supreme authority, okay, yes.

Speaker 1  1:20:48  
So if the pope tells you to take pride in being a part of the church, you can't be like you are allowed.

Prof. Jiang  1:20:56  
The Pope is the word of God. Whatever the Pope says is the word of God, okay, it's that simple.

Speaker 3  1:21:04  
So I have a question. Go ahead, yeah, go ahead. Like, if you, if we really, like, try to pursue the original Jesus, to believe that is to pursue our divine spark. But pride is a thing that we cannot avoid, right? Yeah, so you will

Prof. Jiang  1:21:22  
make mistakes, right? Yeah. So Jesus says it's okay, it's okay to make mistakes. It's okay to screw up. You'll be forgiven, whereas, how the church says it's not okay to screw up? Oh, yeah. Do you understand? All right, can you eat? Can you read aloud?

Speaker 2  1:21:39  
Thus the evil act, the transgression of eating the forbidden fruit was committed only when those who did it were already evil. That bad fruit could only have come from a bad

Prof. Jiang  1:21:51  
tree. Okay, so we're born evil. Okay, it's that simple.

Speaker 2  1:21:53  
Keep on going further. The badness of the tree came about contrary to nature, because without the fault in the will which is against nature. It certainly cannot have happened, but only a nature created out of nothing could have been distorted by a fault. Consequently, although the well drives its existence as nature from its creation by God, its failing away from its true being is due to its creation out of nothing.

Prof. Jiang  1:22:21  
So why are we evil? Why can't we trust ourselves? Why can we be easily swayed by by Satan? The reason why is the Bible tells us that we are created out of dust. We're created out of nothing, okay? In other words, we are a failed science experiment. Okay? That's why we suck. That's why we must believe in the church. All right? So this is the August theme.

Speaker 1  1:22:44  
All right. Can you read yet man did not fall away to the extent of losing all being, but when he had turned towards himself, his being was less real than when he adhered to him who exists in a supreme degree. And so to abandon God and to exist in oneself. That is to please oneself. Is not immediately to lose all being, but it is to come near to nothingness. That is why the proud are given another name. In Holy Scripture, they are called self pleasers. Now it is good to lift up your heart and to exalt Your thoughts, yet not in the self worship of pride, but in the worship of God, this is a sign of obedience, and obedience can belong only to the humble.

Prof. Jiang  1:23:26  
So you must obey the church completely. Okay? Because the mind spark in you. It's out of nothingness, it can lead you to evil, okay? So the only way, the only solution now, is to obey the church completely.

Speaker 1  1:23:39  
And I think that kind of answered my question too, yeah, yeah.

Speaker 3  1:23:44  
Like for because I think I believe in the original No, no. It doesn't

Prof. Jiang  1:23:48  
matter what you believe. I don't care what you believe. I only care about what the Catholic Church is teaching

Unknown Speaker  1:23:53  
you. Okay, can we also see

Prof. Jiang  1:23:54  
we're not an argument about what? Who's right, who's wrong? Yeah, I don't want that, okay? I want you understand what the Catholic Church is

Speaker 3  1:24:01  
teaching you. Like, can we? Can we also see the like people eat the fruit from that tree, also as a mistake that we can just like the original Jesus believed that we can be forgiven.

Prof. Jiang  1:24:15  
Jesus thought that what Eve did was correct. All right, okay. All right, so. Alan Huey, please.

Speaker 2  1:24:24  
This is why humility. Humility is highly prized in the city of God, and especially enjoyed on the City of God during the time of its pilgrimage in this world. And it receives particular emphasis in the character of Christ, the King of this city. We are also taught by the sacred scriptures that the fault of exaltation, the contrary of humility, exercised supreme dominion in Christ's adversary, the devil. This is assuredly the greatest. Friend that thunders the two cities in which we are speaking, the one as a community of devout man, the other a company of the in religion, in religious and each has its own angle, angels attached to it. In one city, love of God has been given first place in the other, love

Prof. Jiang  1:25:18  
of self. So it's that simple. Okay, if you obey, you are doing the work of God. If you disobey, you're doing the work of the devil. It's that simple, okay, all right, can you keep on reading and this, this will end the

Speaker 2  1:25:31  
Yeah, in the heavenly city, then there will be freedom of wealth. It will be one and the same, freedom in all and in this individual, indivisible, in the separate individuals, and will be freed from all evil and filled with all good, enjoying unfailingly the delight of internal joys, forgetting all offences, forgetting all punishment.

Prof. Jiang  1:25:54  
So when we have freedom, okay, we're slaves now, but when we have freedom, when we have when we're with God, because only one more God can we know what is good, okay? And then we have complete freedom. But what he means by freedom, of course, is complete obedience. Now we want to even think about disobeying God, okay? That's what freedom is, all right? So the Catholic church grows, the Roman Empire makes it the official religion, because it does three things, okay? And we discussed this. The first is that now you're better to exploit your slaves. They're now more hard working, because before, if they were lazy, they might get whipped, right? But they're lazy now they will burn in hell for all of eternity. That's number two is, this is really important. You have all this gold, right? The problem of all this gold is people can steal it, people can kill you for it, right? But now you have spiritual authority. Now you represent God. Now you're head of a church, right? And therefore people can't kill you, because if they kill you, God will come and kill them. Okay, pretty good deal. Right before you were king, but now you're a god. What a great deal. And the last thing, of course, is now what you can do is you can now expand and expand and expand your empire. Okay, I so let me explain why this is relevant today. Okay? Because now that the Catholic Church is around, these dynasties of Rome can continue on to today through the Catholic Church, right? Does that make sense to you guys? Because now they can store their power in the Catholic Church. You put your golden Catholic Church, no one's gonna come and steal it, right? Because they don't want to incur the wrath of God. That's That's why the Catholic Church will give rise to some, to some people call the Black Nobility, okay, these are 13 families from Rome that still run the world today. Okay, we'll discuss this later on. All right, we'll discuss how the Catholic Church and the Black Nobility work together. Second, something you need to understand is what allowed the Catholic Church to dominate is this alliance between a black nobility and Jews. Guess what, guys, it still happens today. Okay. The third thing is, what allows for the system to work are these secret societies, where for rituals, these powerful people are bound together, okay? And so these three ideas, the Black Nobility, the alliance between black nobility and the Jews. And the third of secret societies is the power structure we have today. All right, that's the power of the Catholic Church, that is the genius of Paul to create a system that continues even today, because it is so powerful and so strategic. Okay, does that make sense? All right, and we'll discuss this later on as well, but I present the idea to you today. All right, some questions. Okay, my wife sends me more questions. Okay, this person wants to know, what's the difference between the Catholic Church, the Protestants and the Eastern Orthodox. So the Eastern Orthodox is the church of Augustine. It doesn't it didn't really change. The Protestants are those who rebel against the teachings of Paul and Augustine and the Catholic Church is sort of in between, okay, but we'll discuss this more as we go along. All right, the great mystery schools. Are they still around today? And the answer is yes, of course, they're still around today because they allow the elite to work together, okay? They allow the elite to trust each other, okay? And again, they come from the Greek mystery schools, all right? Psychopaths. What do we do with these people? Right? You have these psychopaths who run the world. They don't feel regret, they don't forgive each other. So how do we perceive these people? Okay? And there are different solutions. The first solution is to appreciate the idea of karma. So yes, they are powerful to like like in this lifetime, but in next lifetime, they become slaves so they can feel for themselves the evil that they've done onto other people, okay? Another idea is, in the world of today, psychopaths will always war, only evil will war, because that's the structure of this universe. In this universe that we live in, the devil is always King, okay? And there's no way around it. So we're here not to fight these people. We're here to learn wisdom in a world of evil. So don't worry about them. Just worry about yourself. Okay? The third thing to think about is, if you really understood how these people live their lives, you would feel sorry for them, All right, so remember the Iliad where Achilles Trumps over Hector, but rather than feeling joy and happiness, he feels only sadness, and he can't even cry, okay? He becomes a zombie. And you can make the argument that the wealthy people are like that today. Yeah, they look like as though they're happy. They have billions dollars, but they're not happy, okay, if you actually live their lives, if you see the world through their eyes, you would see that they're very unhappy people. So don't hate them. Feel pity for them. Okay, so there are different ways of understanding this. All right, okay, this is a great question, okay, I love this question. If the Romans are the ones who killed Jesus, why did the Jews don't speak up? Why don't the Jews say we didn't do it? Man, okay, so this is really complicated, but the simple answer is, there's an agreement between the Catholic Church and the Jews. Okay, the agreement is this, the Catholic church needed scapegoats, Needed People for other people to hate, okay, and the Jews agreed in order to practice their religion. Does that make sense? All right, I know this sounds terrible, but the only way for the Jews to survive as a people is they agree to be scapegoats for Christians, all right? And we'll discuss this later on, and that's why, if you look at Europe for these 2000 years, what the Christians did to the Jews was just horrific, okay, and the Jews could not speak up, because if they did, the Catholic church might get rid of them, okay? This person says, James the Just Jesus, brother, he was killed by the Jews. Right? No, no, no, ask yourself this question, who is most threatened by James the Just? The answer, of course, is Paul, because Paul had him killed. Okay, in 70 the Romans destroyed the temple, and that time would have been the perfect time to kill James, and just James and just was probably protected by the Jews, okay, but Paul saw him as a threat, because as long as James was just was alive, he told him to throw down Jesus, right? Paul could not steal the legacy from James and just, therefore he had to have to get this guy killed, okay, does that make sense? All right, how do you know if you see the truth and reject a lie? The answer is really simple. Guys, how do you know if you love someone, you just do? Guys, okay, I'm sorry if you don't know you love someone, you probably don't love that person. All right, when you love someone, your heart glows. You feel stronger. You are more energetic, all right? If you don't love if you are in a relationship, but you become weaker, you feel tired, you lose hope. You probably don't love that person. That person probably doesn't love you. Okay, it's that simple, guys, if you how do you know you're in love? You just do. How do you know you see the truth? You just do. All right? You cannot trust a human. The Bible clearly states, the one who bring evil to this world stands above all humankind. Therefore you will find in truth. No, no, no. This is what Paul says. This what auction said. Oxen says, You do know. You know in your heart. Okay? All right, that's that's it. Any questions guys before we conclude? Okay, great, so we'll continue this next class. Okay, bye.

