Prof. Jiang  0:00  
Okay, so today we continue the topic of secret societies. Last class, we discussed how they come into power. Today we will look at where they come from and what they believe. So to understand secret societies, I first need to explain to you the history of religion in the Western world. So in the Western world, there have been three major stages of religious development. And again, I will oversimplify for the purpose of clarity. Okay, so this is a simplified version of the history. So the three major stages of religion develop. Religious development in the western world are the mother goddess, Mother Goddess, polytheism and monotheism. Polytheism means many gods. You believe in many gods. Monotheism means one god that only one God exists. So the mother goddess, civilization came about because of agriculture. And in an agricultural world, you have two problems. The first problem is to make sure that your crops are healthy and you can harvest them in time. Second problem is to give birth, to have as many children as possible, to work the fields. Okay, so these are the two problems, and because of that, a religion developed in order to facilitate, facilitate both. Call the mother goddess civilization. So the centre of this religion is the womb, the woman's womb is considered a divine portal from the spirit world into our world. It's almost like a cave, right in which the spirit world can come out and manifest itself in our world. So the centre of this religion is the womb of the woman, and as such, the woman are controlled. What's really important is to understand that in this world, everything is interconnected, harmonised, balanced together. So the womb is the centre of this world. But then you have the stars. Okay? The stars. And of course, this gives rise to astrology. Astrology is a study of the movement of the stars in order to understand its impact on our world. Then you have, of course, the crops. Right? So, in an ideal world, all three are aligned together by setting the stars. You know when to best plant the crops and when to best have children. And in this world, again, it is the woman who are in control. They have a high status in society because they believe that women are direct representatives of the mother goddess who rules the world. Usually, in this society, the mother goddess is represented as a bird. Okay, a bird? Why? Because if you think about it recently, all the animals in nature, it's a bird that has dominion over the sky. And if life comes from the sky, it makes sense that the mother goddess must be a bird of some sort. But the mother goddess is also paired with a bowl. Okay, a bowl? Why? Because a bowl is a symbol of virility and energy. You cannot, you cannot get pregnant as a woman by yourself. You need a man to do it for you. Okay, so the bird and the bull are the two symbols of worship in this world. Now, this world is very strange from our perspective, because there's no property. Everything belongs to everyone. There's no hierarchy. Everyone is the same, and there's no such thing as as sex by yourself. Okay? So sex is actually a community act, so that these rituals. Um, called fertility cults, fertility cults in which they have sex together. In fact, many men will have sex with one woman. And it makes sense, because as a woman, you want to have the best DNA. You want to have the best sperm, right? You don't know who's gonna have the best sperm, so just have sex with everyone, and whoever has the best sperm will give it to you. Okay, so that's the mother goddess civilization. Then we switch to polytheism. So why did we make the switch? The answer is war. For the first time in human history, as populations increase, there's now struggle for resources. And what's the most important resource in this world? Do you guys know the most important resource is women? Right? Females? Because it's females that give birth, and that's the and so with war, we have a new concept called property. In order to get men to fight wars, you have to give them something as reward, right? So they get to have a woman, a wife. And now this wife belongs to them and only them. So in this world, what happens is that you now have property hierarchy and marriage, and the role of the woman decreases and the role of the man increases at the same time. What's happening is that these different societies in order to fight wars, they have a god, okay? And when they go to war, they it's like the gods are going to war, and if you lose the war, what it means is that your God is inferior to their God. So now you have a hierarchy of gods. So to maintain peace, what happens is that if you lose the war, you omit that your God is weaker than their God, and you you now must obey their God, right? And this is what we call the Pantheon. So remember, in the Greek pantheon, Zeus is at the top, and you have Apollo ares Aphrodite. Okay, everyone else is a lower God. But before they were separate gods, and in a series of wars, the people who believe Zeus is the best God won out against the other gods, and as a result, the other gods became Zeus children. Yes, you have a question,

Speaker 1  7:46  
um, why does like demands are fight for women, but women's don't fight for men, like the women's don't

Prof. Jiang  7:56  
fight for the men. So why? Okay, okay. So the question is, why do men go to war and why don't women go to war? Okay, so that's a really good question. Okay, so let me explain to you very slowly. So in this world, the women are in control, right? So women have all the status, but over time, as populations increase, you have a you have young men who have no families, and these young men are discarded from the societies because of lack of resources. So these young men have a problem. They need to find wives in order to survive. So these young men start to raid other societies in order to capture women. You understand? So in this society, it's never young women who are discarded because they have value to their society. It's always young men who are discarded. And as a result, these young men become like wolves. Okay, they become like a wolf pack who then go and pillage other villages. That's how you start, and that's and that's how you have the origin of war, okay, does that make sense? Okay, so now you have this pantheon of gods, okay, which leads to polytheism. Then we make the switch from polytheism to monotheism. Why? Because now you have a new idea called empire, specifically the Roman Empire, and they introduce a new religion called Christianity, which is the first monotheistic religion in the world, there's a lot debate as to what was the first monotheistic religion. Some people say Zoroastrianism. Some people say Judaism. I will, I will show you in this class later on that actually the first religion that was monotheistic is Christianity. Okay, so the difference between. Between this society, which is a study based on war, is you still there's a lot of humans, but humans are still the most precious resource. Therefore, it is not in your best interest to kill everyone. But we have an empire like the Roman Empire. You don't have to worry about killing other people. In fact, you can go and destroy entire societies, which is what the Romans did. And you can now, as an empire, enforce, impose your reality, your God, on everyone else. That's how you have monetheism. Does that make sense? All right, so let me explain that. What I want to show you now is how the world view or understanding the world changes over time. Okay, so in the mother goddess civilization, there are two things about their world that's very different from our world. Okay, so the first major difference this is really important for you guys to remember, is they understood that mind led to matter. Mind leads to matter, but in our world, we believe that it's matter that led to mind? You understand? So in science class, you're taught, we have a brain, then the brain, because of somatic connections, creates the mind. Okay, so it's matter that leads to mind. Even though we're taught this, we think about it, it actually doesn't make any sense, because how does our small, little brain, how is it able to do so much processing, which is the mind, right? How are we able to imagine? How we able to dream? It's really confusing for us. And quite honestly, if you talk to the very best neuroscientists in the world, their response will always be, don't ask this question. It's never like, we don't know. It's always like, don't ask this question. This question is forbidden to ask in neuroscience, but so throughout most of human history, we believe that was mind that led to matter, that it's the mind that creates the brain in order to understand the world, okay? That makes a lot more sense than mind. Matter leads to mind, okay? So that's the first major difference throughout most of human history, most societies believe that it was the mind that creates the brain. The second major difference is that this is a metaphorical world. In other words, they spoke using metaphors. They understood the world through metaphors. Today we live in a literal world. Okay, what's the difference? Well, the difference is this, let's just say that you and I fight. Well, we would say that, okay, what happened was that I became angry, the emotion overwhelmed me, and then I hit him, then he got angry, then he hit me back. Okay, this is a little interpretation, but back then, the metaphorical understanding was that anger is a God who seized me and who propel me into the fight, and then anger unleashed the God of vengeance, who fought back by seizing the other person to fight me back. Okay, so we believed for most of you of human history that we were controlled by forces outside our control. Now today, you may believe that the literal world makes more sense, but you think about it from the perspective of human thought, Okay, how do you understand the world? How do you interpret what goes on in the world? The metaphorical understanding is actually much more useful, and that's why, and I know this is hard for you guys to understand, back then, they were much more creative than we are today, okay? And also, the things that they were able to do are beyond our imagination. So, for example, we've never really figured out how the Egyptians create the pyramids. Okay? For our explanation is aliens did it because their mind is beyond our imagination. Okay? So that's the that shows you the switch. Now when we go to the polytheistic world, this system still continues, but they add more elements to make it more complex. Okay, so the first element is they believe that we are controlled by God. We are the playthings of gods. Now, what's really important to understand is that these gods, the. Zeus, Apollo, Aries. They're no different from mortals. The only difference is they just live forever. Okay, so, for example, if you're a king, what do you like to do? Well, you like to go around and chase young girls around. Okay, what does Zeus do all day. What does Apollo do all day? These gods, all they do is go around and chase young girls around. So there's absolutely no difference above the gods. Are the older gods, fortune, fate. So the belief was that even though these are gods. They're so controlled by forces beyond their understanding. Understand, like fortune and fate. What mattered in this world was not to be good. What mattered in this world is to be lucky. Okay, to be fortunate, because that showed you that that the gods favoured you. And the last element, the most important element, is the unwritten and immutable laws of the universe, okay? So a concept like justice, so think of gravity. How gravity gives structure to the universe, right? Well, back then, they believe the same thing, where at the most fundamental level, there were concepts that existed, like justice, and if you you could have the favour of the gods, and you could be very lucky, but if you did things that were unjust, then eventually you'd be punished for it, because You're breaking the structure of the universe. Okay, so this was the polyphenic worldview. Now, when you go to the monolithic worldview, all this changes, because now you have a new concept that never existed in human history before, called One True God. And this changes everything, okay? Because before, as you can see, humans fought in a very complex, sophisticated, diverse, imaginative way about the world. But now, with the advent of Christianity, it's only one true God, and as such, you have three new concepts that become dominant in this world. These concepts have existed before, but now they're dominant. The first concept is the idea of truth. Okay, if there's one true God, then there must be one truth to the universe. And so when we move towards the truth that is good, right, but when we move towards, when we move away from the truth that is evil. So now you have a new concept called evil that didn't really exist before you did good things, because in this world, it was to your advantage. Now in this world, if you defy God, that is evil.

Prof. Jiang  18:01  
And now with truth and evil, you have a new concept called the individual. Before in this world, what mattered was your family, your community, your society, the people around you. Now, with the advent of one true God, the community, family doesn't matter. What matter is your loyalty, your faith in the One True God. So you can actually step outside your community and just do what you believe is right, as long as you have faith in the One True God. All right. Okay, so this three concepts, truth, evil individual, are important for you to remember because they underpin modernity. These three concepts, once they grow to a certain extent, they will create modernity. The world we live in. Our world is controlled by these three forces. Now what's important for us to understand is these three concepts are beyond the human intuition. You cannot, logically, by yourself, deduce or come up with these three concepts. This world of the mother goddess, it's intuitive, okay, this polyphenic world is also intuitive, but the Christian world now is counterintuitive, okay, so as a result, for monotheism to triumph, because it's so counterintuitive, it must now destroy the polyphenic world, okay, so the Romans spent a lot of time taking centuries and centuries to destroy the polyphenic world. But the thing is this, you could never, ever kill an idea. The idea, if it is being suppressed, just goes under. Ground. Okay, so remember here in the Mother God civilization, the main instrument of religious worship are fertility cults run by woman. Well, now that war has come and men have taken over from woman, what happened is that the woman went underground to create new religious organisations called Mystery Schools. And Mystery Schools, what they're trying to do is they're trying to maintain the best knowledge and traditions of the mother civilised, the mother, god of civilization, okay, especially the fact that we come to the mind. We created the universe for our imagination, okay, that's the main secret that they're trying to maintain. These mystery schools become extremely popular among the elite because they offer great sex, okay, the elite join these mystery clubs as sex clubs, basically remember initialization, what matter is the womb, so they develop all sorts of like secret sexual techniques to please the woman, To make the woman feel Association, harmony with the universe. In this world, the mother goddess sex is a mechanism to communicate with the universe, to discover the secrets of the universe, and so they maintain these rituals in the Mystery Schools, and the most powerful people will participate in these mystery schools. They're called mystery schools, not because they're secret, but because everyone is sworn to secrecy. So if you ever divulge what actually goes on in these mystery schools, you'll be punished by death. You'll be executed by the members. But with the advent of Christianity, these mystery schools now are a threat to the Empire, because these mission schools are where the elite, the local elite, hang out. So now what happens is now they become secret societies. That's where they come from. Secret Societies are an attempt to maintain the secrets of the universe against the advent of Christianity and Empire and secret societies have been around for a long, long time. You may have heard of student secret societies, like the knights, Templars, Rosicrucians, the Illuminati, the Freemasons, okay, they're all very powerful. They're still around. Yes, I understand that, but what I'm saying is there are a lot more secret societies that we do not know about, and we've been around for much longer, okay, but they're all trying to maintain the secret of the universe, which is that mind leads to matter. That's the great secret of the universe, and this is something that we've always believed and always known, but with the advent of Christianity, this has been become suppressed over time. All right, so any questions before I move on? Okay, so now what I will do is I explain to you Christianity, and I'll explain to you what the secret scientists believe. Okay, I've already explained to you where they come from, but now what I will do is explain to you what they actually believe about the universe.

Prof. Jiang  23:40  
Okay, so what I'm gonna do is, first thing I'm gonna do is explain to you what most Christians believe about their religion. Okay, this is called the Orthodox or the canonical perspective. Okay, so this is what you're taught officially by the church. Christianity has many different factions, but they all believe in a certain interpretation of the Bible. Okay? Then what I'm going to do is, I'm going to show you the apocryphal, apocryphal Apocrypha just means hidden, okay, or secret, or esoteric, just a secret knowledge that is kept within these secret societies. All right, so the Orthodox chemical comes from a reading of the Bible, and the Bible at its core is a story of the covenant between God and humans, okay, covenant. Covenant means contract or understanding. So throughout the Bible, there are a series of covenants, okay? The first covenant is between Adam and God. So you may have heard of the story of the god of Eden, right? Okay, God creates the universe then creates the Garden of Eden, where he puts Adam and Eve, and God says to Adam and Eve, this is paradise. You don't have to work, just enjoy life. The food is free. The food is plentiful. Every day you'll be happy and free of want, you will live forever, but there's only one thing that you must not do, and only one thing, okay, whatever you do, do not eat from the Tree of Knowledge of Good and Evil. Just don't do that and you'll be okay. So of course, what do I believe? Do they eat the stupid fruit? Okay, so then what God does is he banishes Adam and Eve from the Garden of Eden, and now they're forced to work, to to grow food, to feed themselves, okay? And this leads to society, okay, development of society. God looks down from the heavens and sees that humans now are going to war. They are fighting their private property. And God says, I don't want this crap. This is not why I created humans. Okay? So he's like, You know what? I'm going to destroy everyone and start over. But then he sees a human that he likes, named Noah. And this leads to God saying to Noah, build a ship, build an ark and save yourself, because I will flood the universe. I will destroy the world. So God destroys the world, and Noah lives. And then God says, Noah, you know what? That's kind of silly. I should have destroyed the universe. I promise never, ever destroy the world again. That is His covenant with Noah. But God sees that humans are still wicked and evil, and he says, You know what? I need to find a man who is good, and I need him to grow a nation that can be the light of the world, that will be the best example of what it means to be a good person. So he finds a man named Abraham. And Abraham, of course, is the father of a nation called Israel. And so this is the third covenant God says to Abraham, you and your children, your grandchildren, your great grandchildren, are now loyal to me. I see you as the chosen people, and I gave you the promised land. That's what Israel is, a promised land. Over time, what happens is that Abraham and his people, they go off to Egypt, and in Egypt, they become slaves to the pharaoh of Egypt. And then God is like, you know what? I should check up on the Israelites and see how they're doing. He looks down. He says, Oops, they're now slaves to the Pharaoh. So I need now to fix this. Okay, so we appoint a man named Moses to free the Israelites from Egypt and take them back to the Promised Land. When Moses does this, God says, Now what you must do is give the Israelites my law, the 10 Commandments. Okay, the law, because otherwise I can't trust you guys to behave. Okay? So now this is the fourth covenant. So now the Israelites are back in the Promised Land, but again, and even though there's laws, they still become wicked, and they start to worship false gods. So God punishes them. And God is now looking for a good leader of the Israelites, and then finally, finds a person named David who becomes the king of the Israelites. And God says to David, you are the person I've been looking for of eternity. You are the best example of what it means to be a faithful follower of me. Yahweh, okay, and so this is something called the Davidic Covenant. The David covenant states that God will always favour Israel as the chosen nation, and the house of David will rule Israel forever. Okay, so, guys, quick question here, who wrote the Bible? Probably this guy. Okay, right? You have to guess who wrote the Bible. Probably not Moses, probably not Abraham, probably not Noah, probably not Adam, probably this guy. Okay, because he's saying that all these five okay, I am the best. I'm the god. I'm the person that God loves the most. My family will rule the world, because that is God's will. Okay? Now, of course, that's not what happens. Eventually, David has a son named Solomon, and these two are considered the two best rulers of Israel, and this is what we call the Davidic kingdom, okay? The Davidic Kingdom the golden age of Israel. But after Solomon. Israelites turn wicked again, and then God has to punish them and scatter Israel across the world. And so the last covenant is the arrival of Jesus. What Jesus does is that, first of all, he reasserts the law of Moses and say to the Israelite people, remember Moses and his law, because that's what God wants. Then he sacrificed himself in order to free the Israelites of the original sin, right? Because God's pissed off at people, because people ate the fruit. That's the original sin. That's the first crime of disobedience against God. So by killing himself, Jesus frees humanity of the original sin. He redeems humanity. Okay? Now the last thing that Jesus does is he creates a new covenant, okay, a new covenant between humanity and God from now on, because Jesus has freed everyone from the original sin, everyone can now be with God. You don't have to be Israelite, you don't have to follow the Mosaic law. You don't even have to come from the family of David, anyone and everyone can now love God, and God will love that person back. Okay? And this, of course, starts Christianity, all right, so this, guys is called Judaism, what the Jews believe. And this is all six is what Christians believe. Christianity, right? The first five coming in are what Jews believe to be true. But they do believe that eventually someone will return to restore the kingdom of David, okay, but not Jesus. Not Jesus. The Christians believe that Jesus is the final prophet. In fact, Jesus is God himself. That's why it's called Christianity, because they believe in Jesus Christ. So this is the entire history of Judaism and Christianity. What they believe officially. Any questions before I move on. Now, as you can understand, if you are true Christian or you're a true Jew, there are actually lots of issues with this understanding. The first issue is, why did God have to kick us out of the Garden of Eden? I mean, was eating a fruit so bad as to banish us from Paradise, like, what was wrong reading that fruit? Okay, that's a great mystery in the religion. Why did the original sin happen, and why was God so angry? Second problem is Noah. I mean, like God destroyed the world because we were wicked. But after destroyed the world, we were still wicked. So why did God have to destroy the world in the first place? If he's God, then she then should he understand how humans are that when he understand that destroying the world would just, I mean, it doesn't really do anything. Okay? So that's kind of strange. The last problem is Jesus.

Prof. Jiang  33:27  
Who Was Jesus, and why did he have to kill himself? Why did God have to send his only Son to die for humanity? So if you're new to Christianity, the very idea of Jesus actually doesn't make much sense to you. I grew up in the West. I grew up in a Christian world, and it never made sense to me. Okay? People told me about how great Jesus was, like, okay, the story doesn't make any sense. So if you're really smart person, there are lots of there are lots of questions about this interpretation of the Bible, and these are the three major ones. So now, what I will do now is I'll explain to you what the esoteric, what secret scientists believe really happened. So I wanna start with Noah. Why did God destroy the world? The reason why God destroyed the world is not because of humans, but because of something else. These people are called the Nephilim. Nephilim, okay, also, by the way, if you guys are interested in learning more, there are two books that are not part of the Bible, but which will give you insight into the esoteric knowledge. Okay, the first is called the Book of Enoch, Book of Enoch. The second is called the Gospel of Thomas. Okay, all right, so I am using these two books as sources for my explanation. Okay, so. The Nephilim are children of angels and woman. Okay, so what happened was that the angels were supposed to watch humanity came down and saw, Wow, these human humans, these females are really beautiful. So what do they do? Well, they have sex with them, right? And then what happens? They have lots and lots of children. And what do these children do? These children enslave humanity. These people call it nethlehem, okay, so if you want to understand what happened, let's do a thought experiment. Let's just say that there's this group of superhumans called The Avengers, Spider Man, Iron Man, Captain America, Thor, okay? And they fight Thanos, and they save the world. And now what do they do? Well, they're bored, so they start to have lots and lots of sex. They have lots and lots of children. And these children now are like demagogues, right? So what do they do? Well, they enslave humanity. But then what do they do? Well, they start fighting amongst themselves. So that's basically what happened. So God had to destroy the nephthym because they are not natural angels, and humans are not supposed to have sex with each other, and this creates a new power called the Nephilim. The problem, though, is the Nephilim are divine, and therefore they cannot be killed, so you can keep rid of their mortal bodies. But now they become demons who live underground and are in the shadows. And guess what, guys, they're still here today. So these two societies, they believe the Nephilim are real, and they still control the world. The richest people in the world are actually Nephilim, okay? Because they've been around for 1000s of years, and therefore they're able to control the development of humanity. Okay? So they're called the Nephilim, so that's easy to understand. But another question then is, wait a minute, why did Adam eat that app, that fruit, and why did Jesus have to kill himself? Well, now it gets really complicated. Okay, so now I need to explain to you what the secret side is believe. Okay, remember, they believe that mind leads to matter. What does that mean? Okay, let me explain what this means. Mind leads to matter. In the beginning. The true God is called the monad, okay, the one. So just think of this as the core of the universe. The sun, the divine sun, the monad, is so powerful that when he breathes, okay, he vibrates divine energy, and over millions of years, this divine energy creates new life forms. Okay, so the first life form are called the Dyads. Dyads are just pairs, okay, usually male female that are children of the monad, and they're able, by themselves, to create new universes as well. Okay, so the Dyads start to emanate, emanate, emanate, emanate, emanate, emanate, okay, so, so the entire universe is vibration. It's vibrational energy supply. It's the breathing of these cosmic beings, okay, and over time, over millions of years, these vibrations become atoms, which then leads to matter. Okay, that's what they mean by mind leads to matter. Now, one of these diets named Sophia decides, you know what, I can be just as good as the monad. What does the monad do? The monad is able to propagate by itself, by himself. He doesn't need to mate so Sophia. Sophia says, You know what, I'm gonna produce something by myself. I don't have a child by myself to prove I am the monad. Okay? So she does this, and she creates a new being. Okay, a new being. This is called the Demiurge. There are different names. We'll call him the Demiurge. The Demiurge is a monster, a monstrosity, because it goes against a natural order. So then Sophia is like, Oops, I should have done that. So what does she do? She abandons the monstrosity. She throws him away and hides him in a sea of clouds so no one knows he actually exists. Okay, even the Demiurge doesn't know he exists. The Demiurge does not know about this world, right? Therefore, he believes that he must be the one to God capable of creating new life. So what does He create us? Okay, he creates the planet Earth, and then he and then he creates Adam and Eve. Okay, that's what a monster would do. Okay, look at this history. What kind of God would kick someone out of paradise for eating a fruit a monster would do it, right? What kind of. That God would kill a people for no particular reason, a monster would do that. Okay. What kind of God would demand that a people be loyal to that person? A monster? What kind of God would enforce his will on a people a monster. What kind of God would say to someone? You're the one person I like everyone else I hate. A monster would do that? Okay? So in other words, the true secret that these secret societies are trying to keep is the God we worship today. It's the false god. It's the and we are actually in a prison created by this false god, and that's who Jesus was. Jesus was a cosmic being sent by the monad to tell us the truth about the world, and that's why he died, because the Roman Empire could not allow people to see the truth. If I told you the truth, you would know it right away. You would wake up, therefore the truth tellers must be killed. Okay, so that's what these secret scientists believe. They believe that the monad exists, and the mind of the monad is what created, creates the universe. And Jesus was said to remind us that even though we're in a prison, there's still the monad in you. There's a spark in you, a divine light in you, that you can activate. And if you activate it, then you will return to the monad. You will see the truth for yourself. And when you die, your soul, which is part of the monad, will want to return to the monad and can escape this world, but to actually this light, you must be a good person. You must love one another. You must reject money and materialism and grades, okay, grades in school. You must reject competition. You must reject material wealth in order to pursue spiritual happiness. That was the message of Jesus. Now you can imagine that the powers that be, the Nephilim, would not like this. Okay, it's a direct threat to Nephilim, who now control the prison created by the Demiurge. It's also a direct threat to the Demiurge, and that's why these sick societies have been, over the centuries, been repressed, been executed, been massacred. But they believe that it is your duty to protect the secret, because only by protecting the secret can humanity be ultimately saved, right? Doesn't make sense. Okay? Any any questions, right? So you have the official version, which is what you're taught in school, but now you have the secret version that is only taught in secret societies.

Prof. Jiang  42:59  
The other thing about secret societies that's really important is they believe that most of us cannot accept the truth. If I told you this, you think I'm crazy and report me to police. Therefore they can only wait for people to wake up by themselves and approach them. And if you approach them, then they will test you, and then they will reveal the secret of the universe to you, okay? And that's why these secret societies were founded, and that's why they've been so persistent and so successful over the centuries, right? So now the question is, okay, this is a great theory, but how do we know it's true or not? How do we know that this is actually what they really thought? Well, we know because in poetry, in literature, the members of these secret societies have embedded the secret within the poetry. So if you're able to analyse the poetry properly, you will see for yourself that this is true. Okay, so what we're going to do is we will study today the greatest poem in English language called Paris lost by John Milton, who was, who actually was a member of the secret societies.

Prof. Jiang  44:31  
Any questions before I continue?

Prof. Jiang  44:49  
Here. Okay, we're going to re put credit slots.

Prof. Jiang  44:59  
Okay? Are we. Clear. Any questions, yeah, there's a question here.

Speaker 2  45:05  
If all of these are from the false god, do we have a like, true God? Like, do we or, like, it's just a thing,

Prof. Jiang  45:13  
okay, yeah. So in this system, the monad is a true god, okay? And the question then is, why doesn't the monad interfere? Why does the monad stop the Demiurge from imprisoning us and making our lives hell? And there are two explanations for why this is happening. Okay, the first explanation is that the monad does not interfere in material affairs, okay? Because the monad is its own mind, and also we have the capacity to reject this world and return to the monad, right? So why would he force us to do what we don't want to do? If you want to return to Him, then you have the choice to engage in spirituality, to engage in goodness, to engage in knowledge, and then you'll be able to return to him. Okay, that's the first explanation. Second explanation is that, and this comes from Dante, okay. Comes from Dante. The monad is a force that is eternal, perfect and immutable, and therefore the monad has no imagination. But how do you grow as a being? You grow through the imagination. So in order for the monad to continue to grow, the monad allowed for the Demiurge to create human beings. Because as human beings, we are flawed. We make mistakes, we commit evil, but by committing evil, by making mistakes. We expand the imagination of the universe, okay, which allows the monad to expand, okay. So in this perspective, sorry. So in this perspective, what is happening is that each time we imagine, we turn to the monad, okay, so, so it's hard to understand, but the monad, it's there, it's eternal, but it's also becoming. It's also moving. And so when we imagine things, when we commit mistakes, but the same time, when we recognise these mistakes and try to adjust to these mistakes, we expand the imagination of the monad. And that's why these civil society believe that evil and good exist together. You can only be good if you do evil, okay? Because e by committing evil, it gives you a chance to become better. Okay, doesn't make sense. All right. All right, so we're doing Paradise Lost. All right. This is the national epic of the British Empire. If you are a member of the British Empire, which rules the world today, the Anglo American Empire, It rules the world today. If you are an elite member of the British Empire, you memorise this poem, okay? And it becomes part of your soul, basically. And it's, it's beautiful, okay? So this was written by a man named John Milton. And John Milton, he was a rebel. He was a free thinker. He want. He questioned the world. He fought for himself, and he was a passionate advocate of free speech. He was a man who wrote Paradise Lost, and he wrote it when he was blind. He could not see, therefore he had to speak it out, and his secretaries had to write it down for him, as you can see. Well, if a blind man is able to recite poetry, you must think he is a prophet. He's a messenger of God, what He is revealing to you is divine truth. Okay, all right, so John Middleton and his most famous work is called Paradise Lost. And Paradise Lost is the foundational text of many secret societies. They read this, they discuss this, they worship this text, and within this text lies the secrets of the universe. But only okay, this is this is really hard, but only if you understand the secret to yourself Can you see the secrets embedded in Paradise Lost. Okay, all right. So what we're gonna do is we will read two speeches by Satan the plot of Paradise Lost is really, really simple. It's trying to reimagine the fall of man. Remember Adam and Eve on the Garden of Eden. Then they eat that fruit and God banishes them. Okay, so Milton is trying to tell the story again, and he imagines a serpent who tricks Eve into eating the fruit as Satan himself. And Satan was God's favourite Angel. They had a falling out. Satan rebelled against God. God won the war, and Satan and the devils are now banished to Hell and Paradise Lost begins with the devils discussing what to do. They've lost this war against God. They will never, ever defeat God. Now they're stuck in hell. So now, what do they do? Some propose that, you know what, let's create a let's just create an empire. Okay? Some are like, You know what? Let's just sit back and enjoy life, okay, but Satan is determined to seek vengeance against God, and so what he wants to do is go to the Garden of Eden and corrupt Adam and Eve and destroy humanity forever. Okay, so they all agree this is a great plan, but now the question then is, who's gonna go? Because it's dangerous, right? Because you're escaping hell. There are angels guarding hell. But even if you leave hell, you go into the abyss, you go into space, right? You even know where Earth is. You get lost for all of eternity. So no one wants to go. So at this time, when no one's to go, Satan steps up and says, I will go, Okay, this is his speech, O progeny of heaven, Imperial thrones with reason, have deep silence and demur ceased us, though, undismayed, okay, I know you guys are scared, all right, long is the way and hard that out of hell leads up to Light our prison strong, this huge conduct of fire, outrageous to devour, immerse us round ninefold, AND gates of burning adamant barred over us prohibit all egress. This prison is designed to keep us here for all eternity. It will be hard to escape this prison, these paths, if any, paths, the void, profound of unessential night receives him next wide, gaping and of other laws of being threatens him plunged in that abortive Gulf, if Thence he escape into whatever world or unknown region what remains him less than unknown in dangers and as hard escape, okay, if you can leave hell, you're still up in the abyss of the universe, right? You're gonna be floating there for all eternity. You know what you're going but I should Ill become this throne o Pierce and this imperial sovereignty, adorned with splendour, armed with power, if art proposed and just of public moment, in the shape of difficulty or danger, could deter me from attempting wherefore do I assume these royalties and not refuse to reign, refusing to accept as great a share of hazard as of honour? Do alike to him who reigns and so much to him, do of hazard more as he above the rest. Okay, so what he's saying here is really simple, I'm your leader, and therefore I must go. You have trusted me to lead you for eternity, and therefore I will risk my entire life to prove my worth.

Prof. Jiang  53:40  
High honour sits Go therefore mighty powers tear of heaven, though fallen, intend at home, while here shall be our home. What best may ease the present misery and render hell more Toler, more tolerable, if there be cure or charm to respite or deceive or slack the pain of this ill mansion intermit no watch against a wakeful foe, why I brought through all the coasts of dark destruction, seek deliverance for us all this enterprise, none shall partake with me. I am your leader. I will go by myself. You guys can sit here and like sip, you know, have some drinks. Watch some TV, enjoy yourself. I don't care. Okay, I'm your leader. I will go by himself to redeem us, to deliver us from our torment. Okay, so as you can see, this is heroic. He is the grand hero. A couple of things I will say about the speech is, number one, what he's describing, and secret scientists believe it. Believe this is he's describing his ascent from hell as almost our souls leave our bodies to the heavens. Okay, and some secret scientists believe that when you die, the first person you meet is Satan, because it is Satan who knows how to take you from this world, the prison world. To the light, because he's he's done this. Okay, so Satan is very important part of our journey back to the monad. That's also, if you study this poetry very closely, you study the imagery he what he's describing, almost is a baby leaving the womb, right? Because the baby is in the womb a prison, and then the baby escapes so secret, scientists believe that life and death are the same thing. To be born, you must die, and when you die, you are born again. Okay, all right? The other thing is that these secret studies, you will use the speech as an initiation ceremony for members. When you join secret society, you must by yourself, choose to fight for all humanity by yourself. You must be the hero. Okay, you must know when you join secret society, people will hunt you. People want to kill you for speaking the truth. Do you? Do you dare to go on this journey? Okay? So that's the first speech. The second speech is much more important. This is a speech where Satan, the servant, convinces Eve to eat the fruit. Okay? And this speech is very powerful, okay? So I'm going to read it really fast and then explain to you what it means. Oh sacred wise and wisdom giving plant mother science. Now I feel thy power within me clear, not only to discern things in their causes, but to trace the ways of highest agents deemed however wise. Eve is talking to serpent. And Eve is, of course, like, hey, what can you speak? And the serpent says, because I ate that fruit from the knowledge of good and evil, it gives you power. Okay? So the serpent now wants to convince Eve to eat that fruit. So he invokes the power of the tree, right? O sacred tree give me the power to speak so well that I convince Eve to do the impossible, Queen of this universe. Do not believe those rigid threats of death. Ye shall not die. How should ye by the fruit it gives you life unto knowledge by the threatener. Look on me, me who have touched and taste it, yet both live. Okay, so God has warned Eve Adam, and Eve, if you eat this fruit, you will die. And the serpent is saying, No, that's not true. Look at me. I eat the fruit and I'm still alive, and life more perfect have attained. And fate meant me by venturing higher than my lot. Shall that be shut to man which the beast is open, or will God incense his ire for such a petty trespass and not praise rather your dauntless virtue? What's in the saying? Say, here is really important. If he is a true God, he will reward you for your risk taking, right? He said, the fruit will kill you as a test, a true God would want to become better and better, and you can only do that by transgressing, by making mistakes, by disobeying authority. And a true God would reward you for seeking more knowledge, whom the pain of death denounce whatever thing death be deterred, not from achieving what might lead to happier life, not of good and evil. Of good, how just of evil. If what is evil be real? Why not known? Since ease your Shun, we can only be good people if we know what evil is, right? If you don't know if good and evil, then you're just stupid. Okay? It's because you shun away from evil, you ignore evil, you fight evil, that you're a good person. God, therefore cannot hurt you and be just, not just not God, nor fear then, nor obey your fear itself of death removes the fear. Why then, was this forbid? Okay, so he's asking himself, why would God not allow you to eat that fruit. Why? But to all? Why? But to keep you low and ignorant his worshippers. He knows that in the day ye therefore your eyes that seem so clear yet are but dim, shall perfectly be, then open and cleared, and ye shall be as gods. So what sin in the singing says, there's two possibilities, okay, either God is testing you. God really wants you to disobey Him, because that will allow you to achieve more virtue and knowledge, or God is enslaving you and keeping you ignorant, because God is afraid that you might become God Himself. Okay, so there are two possibilities, all right, what can your knowledge hurt him? Or this tree and part against his will? Of all be his? Or is it envy? And can envy dwell in heavenly breaths? If he is God, He is in control of everything. He knows everything. Therefore, if you eat this fruit, how would I possibly challenge him? Unless he is a false god, unless he is tricking you and. Less he's deceiving you, unless he's trying to imprison you. Okay, that's the only possibility. Now, this is sit in speech and you and you know, I took Milton in college. I was English major at Yale, and I took in a semester of Paradise Lost. And at university, I was taught that this speech shows you how clever and evil Satan is. He's lying to Eve. God is invincible, omniscient. You can't eat a fruit and become God. That's ridiculous. Also, Eve is stupid because he she believes him, right? That's what you're taught in university. That's what you believe. But this is really important when you actually read the Bible, Satan is telling the truth. What sin is? Logic is what the Bible says. Okay, a professor at Yale will tell you that sin is lying. When you actually read the Bible by yourself, you will see he's telling the truth. So we're gonna read the Bible together. Okay, this is what the Bible says. This is the Word of God.

Prof. Jiang  1:01:09  
All right, so this is Genesis. Now, the serpent was more crafty than any other wild animal that the Lord God had made. He said to the woman, Did God say you shall not eat from any tree in the garden? Okay? So in the Bible, this is actually not saying it's just a serpent. You serpent. The woman said to the serpent, We may not eat of the fruit of the trees in the garden, but God said, you shall not eat of the fruit of the tree that is in the middle of the garden, nor shall you touch it, or you shall die. The serpent said to the woman, You will not die, For God knows that when you eat of it, your eyes will be open and you'll be more like God, knowing good and evil. Okay, so this is exactly what Satan said, and this what the Bible is saying as well. Now let's move on. Eventually, God banishes Adam and Eve for eating the fruit, and you believe that they were banished because they disobeyed God. But if you actually read the Bible, that's what it says for disobeying God. God punishes both Adam and Eve. Eve now, when she gives birth, will suffer pain, right? And Adam will now have to work hard to grow food. That's a punishment. The banishment is not the punishment. So another question then is, why were they banished again? Let's read the Bible. Okay, so when the woman saw that the tree was good for food, and that was a delight to the eyes, and that the tree was to be desired to make one wife, she took of its fruit and ate, and she was also gave some to her husband, who was with her and she ate. Then the eyes of both were opened. Okay? So Satan is telling the truth. You will not die, you will learn. You will be become higher, okay? Satan was telling the truth. All right. So what? So? So what did God kick Adam and Eve out? The Lord God said, see the man has become like one of us, knowing good and evil, and now he might reach out his hand and take also from the tree of life and eat and live forever. This is why there are two trees, the tree of knowledge, which allows you at the mind of God, and the Tree of Life, which he lives, allows you to live as long as God. What God is saying is this, if Adam and Eve ate that tree, that fruit from the loss of good and evil, and then they eat also a fruit from the tree of life. They will be like us. Satan was telling the truth and God was lying to enemies all along. Okay, so now the question then is, how did eve know that Satan was telling the truth? How does she know how? Well? The problem is, if you tried once and you're wrong, you die, right? So how does she know she was certain that Satan was telling the truth. She was certain, yes, he must be telling the truth. Why? The light in us? You understand the true God. The true God still speaks to us today, right? The false god will lie to us, but inside you, in your heart, is the is the light that connects you back to the monad, and that tells you what is false, what is true. Okay, that's how she knew. All right, so you'll see paralysed laws is now showing us the Lost Secrets of the Universe. All right, so I'll finish by talking about the Nephilim. In the Bible, it says that the Nephilim are the children of them from angels and women, okay, but when people began to multiply on the face of the ground and daughters were born to them, the sons of God saw that they were fair and they took wives. For themselves of all that they chose. And the Lord said, My spirit shall not abide in mortals forever, for they are flesh. Their days shall be 120 years. Okay. So now God sees Nephilim as a threat as well. The Nephilim were on the earth in those days and also afterward, when the sons of God went into the daughters of humans who bore children to them. These were the heroes that were of old warriors of renown. Okay, this is really important because it introduces the nephila, he, which is still around today, okay, according to six societies. But also, what it's doing is this. It's telling us the children the heroes that are of old warriors of renown. Who are they? They're Hercules, they're Achilles they're Theseus. They're all heroes from different mythologies. Where they come from. They come from the mating of angels and humans, the sons of God. Who are they? They are the old gods, Zeus, Aries. Apollo, okay, so this is the beginning of monotheism, where the Bible is trying to destroy polytheistic mythologies and create one universe where the god is supreme, okay? And in this universe, Zeus now becomes a son of God, and the children that Zeus has with what a woman are now called a nethlehem, so Hercules is nethlehem. Okay, so we'll go into this theme throughout the semester, where the Bible is a tremendous act of propaganda that tries to reinvent reality around one true God. Okay, but by doing that, it's denying our intuition, and it's denying the history of humanity. All right, okay, so we'll continue this theme Next Class. Any questions before we conclude?

Speaker 2  1:06:51  
Yes? Well, I think nowadays, a lot of us will pray to God, like, for getting something that we wanted. But as you said, like, are we playing like, praying to the truth God or the false god? Do we know or like, do do we get to know like, from our wishes?

Prof. Jiang  1:07:08  
Yeah, so that's a, that's a great question. So according to secret societies, okay, the truth is that you pray, you're praying to the false god, because where's the true God? It's inside you. Okay, so don't put your outside force. Look inside to you and ask yourself, I know for a fact what is true. If I believe in myself enough, then I will find the truth. Okay? And actually, that's a theme throughout Western poetry and literature. The theme is that we will always be in conflict with it, between the devil and God, between good and evil, and what we must do is not say like, I must surrender to God. What we must do is believe in ourselves, make mistakes, but know that you will eventually find a light, because the light is in you, okay, as long as you still believe in yourself, all this, all these mistakes you make, will become your strength, because they become part of your wisdom, okay, that's divine truth that these secret societies are trying to promote. It's okay to make mistakes. It's okay to do evil. But listen to the light, and the light will tell you how to redeem yourself. Okay, the possibility for redemption, for growth, for imagination, is all in us because of a connection to the monad. The monad will reward you for believing in yourself, but you must first believe in yourself. Believing yourself means often defying authority, making mistakes, transgression, transgression against the rules of society, okay, and that's the ultimate secret that these secret societies are trying to keep. All right, any more questions? That's a really good question. Thank you.

Speaker 1  1:09:02  
Well, the gods are usually depict us the most beautiful. Then why gods like those, will come to human society and give birth with fertilise with the human girls. Okay, okay,

Prof. Jiang  1:09:30  
so there. So the question then is, why are the angels doing this? Okay, there are two explanations. Okay. So the first explanation is, these angels are created by the false god, right? So they're wicked. Anyway, the second explanation is that if you're like a hot looking woman, you see an angel. I don't know, man, you know, you're probably gonna want to marry that person. Okay, all right. Anyway, if you're interested in learning more, this book called The Book of Enoch, which goes into detail about Bethlehem. Okay, but the Nephilim are really important topic throughout the semester, because a lot of secret studies believe in the Nephilim, and that's and that's going to motivate them before, okay, now what I've discussed today is how these secret studies were born. And as you can see, they started off as a noble mission, but then the question then is like, how they become corrupted over time? Well, it's something I will discuss later on. Okay, all right, so I'll see you guys next class.

