Prof. Jiang  0:00  
Good morning. So let us review, or we learn last class, and then we will discuss the Greeks today. So as I discussed last class, there are three major principles to geopolitics, and once you master an understanding of these three principles, then you will see the world much more clearly. Okay, the first idea is that the competition within states is greater than the competition between or amongst states. Okay, and this is idea of elite overproduction. So the historian Peter Turchin, he looked at the follow, the Roman Republic, the French Revolution. He looked at many similar events in human history, and he discovered that what drives crisis is the fact that you have too many elite competing for limited position of status and power, okay? And that's what drives a lot of conflict within the nation state. Another way of framing this is that the Catholic in states is not between rich and poor, but between the half a lot and half some, but what more? Okay, so usually between the upper nobility and the lower nobility. We see this throughout human history. So next class, we will discuss the Rome, okay? And we'll discuss that, and we will understand that a lot of conflict was between the upper nobility and the low nobility. So Julius Caesar did what he did because he was of the low nobility and was trying to reach the upper nobility. Okay, so this is the first principle that you need to understand, that what drives a lot of conflict is elite overproduction. Okay, that's number one. Number two is the elite has no loyalty, okay, this is really important principle to understand. The Elite don't have loyalty to their people or to their state or even to the families. They will do whatever is necessary for them to accumulate power, okay? And this idea of Game of Thrones, right? So I'm not sure if you've seen a television show or read the book series Game of Thrones, but the world is Game of Thrones. And these people who love power, they will kill their parents, they will kill their brothers, they will kill their own children in order to amass power from themselves. Okay, so the Game of Thrones is a very nasty affair. The third thing is that war is often about maintaining that status quo, okay, or the idea of equilibrium. If you look at World War 110s, of millions of people died, okay? And you cannot possibly understand what happened, or you have problems explaining what happened, because the military strategy in World War One was so idiotic, right? You just threw millions of people at each other. But if you understood that war is really about making the status quo that maybe you have access population of males, and if you don't get rid of them, then they will engage in about the revolution. Okay, you understand that war is really about maintaining a status quo, then World War One makes a lot more sense. Okay, so these are three major ideas that I want you to understand, and once you understand these three ideas, it's a lot easier for you to understand the movement of history. Okay, so we're so we will use an example from China's history. So you have, you have a clear understanding of how this works. Okay, so let's talk about the Warring States period. This is something that hopefully you all know really well. Okay, so during the war states period, you had lots of really powerful states, okay, you have the Zhao. You have the way, you have the two, okay? And at this point in history, you could believe that any one of the three would become the Empire. They would unite the entire middle kingdom because they had access to rivers, so it's easier for them to transport soldiers and do goods. They had a large population, and they were on fertile ground, okay. And then over here is this poor, backward and isolated people called the Qing, and these were barbarians, okay. So how? Was it possible for the Qing, who are these barbarians, not very advanced, very poor, limited population, to eventually cover all of China? Okay? Well, once you understand these three principles, we cannot explain it, because what's happening is that the Zhao, the Wei and the Chu are pretty stable states, okay, and so the major problem is legal reproduction, the conflict between the upper nobility and the lower nobility. And the way that we resolve the issue is by waging war against each other, but waging war against each other, not to conquer each other, but in order to reduce the domestic conflict within their nation states, and as such, war became a ritual in which it was like a chess game. Okay, the point was not to destroy each other. The point was just to maintain equilibrium, maintain the status quo. And as a result, these states became stable. But another way for stable is stagnant, and now what's happening is, first of all, the Qing is being recruited into the wars. Because the Qing is poor, therefore they can provide mercenaries. Okay, once they do that, what happens is that these mercenaries learn all the innovations of the Zhao Wei and Chu in terms of military strategy, okay, so you have this massive infusion of innovation into the Qing, all right, so the Qing is being energised. We call this energy, right? Innovation, energy and ideas. But not only that, but you have talented people of the low nobility, right? They want to become officials. They want to become generals, but there's opportunities for them. So where do they go? Guys? They go to the Qing. Okay, now you have people coming in as well. And now what's happening is that the Qing has this massive infusion of energy, innovation, talent, and so now they can just bulldoze everyone, okay? And now you're like, wait a minute here. Surely the Zhao, the way in the Chu recognise the danger of the Qing, and they will respond by uniting together and then destroy the Qing. Okay, that never happens. Why? The reason why is that once you enter an equilibrium, you understand the world through this equilibrium. So in their perspective, the Qing became stronger. But that's okay, because all we'll do is we'll just bribe them, or we will have them become part of this system. Why would they want to take us over? Why can't we just live happily ever after? Okay, so it is impossible for the Zhao, the way the Chu, to imagine that a Qing would one day overtake them. Okay? Another saying this is that once we come, once you reach an equilibrium, the people inside the equilibrium become lazy, stupid and arrogant, okay, and that's and that's why the Qing is easily able to destroy all three together. In fact, the lower nobility in all three states probably support it to take over, right? Because now they have opportunities to rise within their societies, okay? And that's the pattern of human history, and we see this over and over, all right, so now let's move on to the west. Okay, yeah.

Speaker 1  8:43  
So the equilibrium means that the war made the like, the status competition within the countries more stable.

Prof. Jiang  8:51  
Yeah, equilibrium just means they've reached a balance point. Okay, okay, yeah, and things are just staying the same. And so people think that things will stay the same forever, so they can imagine change happening. But the thing about human society is that things always change. Okay, so remember the pattern of the Warring States? Well, guess what? This repeats over and over. So let's look at Mesopotamia. So as we discussed about Mesopotamia, you have the first city, Urich, and what they will do is that as they expand as a city, they will develop colonies along the Tigris and the Euphrates, and then these become warring states as well. And as we discuss, what will happen is, over time, they reach an equilibrium, basically a status quo, or rules to make sure that the elite stay in power. Okay? And one important rule that they have is we get a war against each other, but we cannot destroy each other's temple. Why? Because the temple is the house of your patron god. If you kill the patron god, then the God will be very angry and will kill all of you. Okay, so let's go to the equilibrium. Because where do they put all their gold and wealth? The temple. So you can go and conquer people, but you can't touch the gold and their wealth, and therefore you cannot expand. Okay, so this creates the idea of equilibrium. But as I discussed, what happened is that, because of equilibrium, energy will flow into a poor exit area called Uma, and from Uma, where merchant named luganzagi, who's like, you know what? Screw this system, I'm going to go for it all. Okay, so he dares destroy a temple. And before this was unimaginable, because if you destroy a temple, that God can come and from heavens and destroy you, right? That didn't happen, but now Lucas Aggie has destroyed the equilibrium, and now he has access to wealth, and so he's very quickly able to overwhelm the other city states. At this time, the other city states call for help from mercenaries, the Akkadians, who will come and conquer the entire region, okay, and establish an empire called the Akkadian Empire, led by Sarga. But now that they are an empire, they will now also reach an equilibrium, and this talent will flow somewhere else, energise another region. Okay, so now what happened is that the Babylonians will come, the Assyrians will come, eventually, from the zagos mountains, a new people called the Persians. Remember, the Persians have a religion called zorason will come and conquer all this area, and then they will expand outwards and conquer both Anatolia and Egypt. And at this point in history, now there's a new board area called the Greeks. Okay, the Athenians, Athens and Sparta. And Athens and Sparta, the Greeks encounter Persia, because they will send in mercenaries to help Persia. And these mercenaries will learn Persian War Tactics and bring them back to Greece. But not only that, but we're an empire. The Greeks have an opportunity to get wealthy. How through piracy, right? Piracy, and then this will force the Persians now to invade the Greek mainland to stop this piracy again, this is a pattern throughout history. The margins will get wealthy by committing piracy, because why not? Right. Okay, and so now the Empire is forced to go invade Greece, and guess what? They lose. This is unimaginable. How is that possible that some barbarians. The Greeks are able to defeat a vast empire, the world's largest empire, the first great world empire, called the Persians. Well, this happens all the time, okay, why? Well, the pattern is this, okay? So let's look at Empire. Let's look at Borderlands. Okay. Borderlands are just, you know, the barbarians, all right, the Empire has three major advantages, mass organisation and death. And what this means is that empire just is, has a lot of people. It has a centralised bureaucracy. So the centralised bureaucracy or is able to conscript these individuals, and it doesn't matter, they lose a lot of battles, they can keep on foreign soldiers at the enemy, okay, but the Borderlands have three advantages that counteract these three other damage, okay? Then they are energy, openness and cohesion, okay, meaning that the people work really hard. They're not afraid to die. They're open, so they want to learn from other people, and they are united as a people. And this defeats an empire, because the Empire, the people are not that energetic. Most of them are slaves. Actually, the Empire is a bureaucracy, so it's very stagnant, it's very insular, it's close minded, and it's not and then Empire is not united. It's often divided, okay? That's why, throughout human history, the borons are able to conquer the Empire. Okay, so, okay, so the Persians invade Greece. They get caught, they get defeated, and now Greece becomes the centre of the world, or part or major power. Okay, so let's now discuss Greece. Okay, so in Greece, remember that we discussed Greece before we said that Greece becomes the centre of innovation the world because of three factors. The first is Homer, who is probably the greatest prophet, puppet, poet, Prophet in human issue. Okay? We read the alias together. People also wrote the Odyssey, and these are the two founding texts of Greek civilization, the alphabet, right? They're now able to using the alphabet, write down all their thoughts and quickly transmit their thoughts throughout time and space. The last, of course, is the polis. Okay, the polis is their system of government, where all the citizens are involved in politics. And the polis there's like 1000s of them, and they're often small, like maybe 1000 10,000 people. The two major policies are Athens and Sparta. And Athens and Sparta are both Greek, but they're different societies. In fact, they're nothing alike. Okay, so let's go over why. Well, first of all, Sparta is on flat land, the Peloponnese. And if you're on flat land, you can, you can use agriculture, but to use agriculture, you need slaves, okay, so Sparta became a war society that conquered the surrounding people and turned them into slaves called helots. So these helots were, yeah, serfs slaves who farmed. And so Sparta became a war society based on military dominance. The entire society was centred around how to take young boys, German, Greek warriors, so that they could they could defend their land. Okay? The Spartans were also very conservative. Why? Because your concern is to maintain control over the hell lots if you went over to conquer other places the hell out could ever could rebel against you. Okay? And so if you want to know what this place is like, think China, okay, this is very similar to China. And as a result of this system, Sparta was an oligarchy, meaning rule by the field. So only Spartans, who are born to both a Spartan father and a mother were citizens. Everyone else was not a citizen. So even your father was Spartan, but your mother was not Spartan, you were not a citizen. Okay? So there's a massive class hierarchy in Sparta, and the reason why is for them, the priority was to maintain the status quo. Okay, the Athenians are different people. The Athenians don't have good farmland, but they have a good harbour, okay, so and the territory around them, it's mountainous, so they can't really grow crops, but they do, but they are able to grow a crop called olives, okay, so they have a lot of olive trees. And so what happens is the Athenians have no choice but to be expansionist. Okay, so they dealt a really strong Navy, and they focus on trade and piracy, and that's how they sustain themselves over time. So whereas the Spartans are conservative, the Athenians are both open and expansionist. And also what's really important to understand is that if you're a navy, you have to be a democracy. The rule in Greece is that you fight for us. You can vote, you can speak in public. You can participate in politics now. Sparta was a land army with hoplits. Hoplits are elite soldiers, and as a result, they were an oligarchy, okay, because only a few of them fought. But Athens was a democracy, because at a navy, in a navy, everyone could roll, okay? To be helpful, you had to buy weaponry. You have to train for like decades. But the Athenians had a navy where anyone could just roll, okay. And so they were democracy, all right. And so over time, because Azmain says democracy that's expanding, Sparta is

Prof. Jiang  18:40  
a land power. Athens will start to increase in power, Sparta will decrease in power, and eventually, these two will come in conflict with each other, okay? It's something called the Peloponnesian War. Eventually, this gives rise to Thebes, and eventually, over time, these three states, Athens, Thebes and Sparta, will reach a equilibrium. Okay? So similar to the Warring States, where they inner each other, they use war as a way to resolve their domestic tensions, as opposed to try to conquer each other. And this gives opportunity for a new power to arise that was previously thought of as backward, poor and isolated, and this power is called Macedonia. So what

Prof. Jiang  19:28  
Macedonia is going to do is they're going to take all the major military innovations of Sparta, Thebes and Athens to create the world's most powerful army. Okay? And what else they're going to do is they're going to recruit a lot of talent from these places, and then what's going to happen is that Macedonia is going to come and conquer the entire Greek mainland. The Macedonians will be the first to unite Greece. Okay, now who's doing all this? His name is Phil the second. Do. Azmain. Philip Sulkin is probably the greatest military genius, one of the greatest military geniuses in human history, but we don't remember him because he has a son who's actually more famous than he is, and his name is, who Azmain The Great? Why is Azmain the great more famous? Because Azmain Great will take everything that philipse can build and he will use it to conquer Persia. Okay, and then what will happen is that as the system reaches another equilibrium, a new power arise that will overflow this entire system, and this power is called Rome, okay, which we'll discuss next class. Okay, so you see how this pattern works, right? It's a consistent pattern throughout human history. All right, okay, so what happened is that Azmain, the great will conquer the Persian Empire. All right, what's the Persian Empire? Egypt, Anatolia, the Levant Mesopotamia. This is Persia. Okay, so this is, like the entire world, and like this small army, okay, it's not even the entire Greek army. It's basically, it's Macedonians. Only this small army, the Macedonians, they're able to come and they're able to conquer all of it, okay? And the question then is, how, well, the same reason why the Qing was able to conquer the jiao the way in the Chu, right? Because of elite competition, elite overproduction within these areas, because the elites have no loyalty. So a lot of these elites were switching sides over time. So what probably happened was that these certain elites invited Alexander to come over, and then they switched sides, so he was very quickly able to bulldoze. Also remember that when you reach an equilibrium, you become lazy, stupid and arrogant, right? So this guy, Darius, he is now the king of kings, okay? He's leading the Persians. And he always believed that at some point Alexander would stop, okay, he'd be like, You know what you have Egypt, you have the lot. You have Anatolia, you have parts of Mesopotamia. You know what I'll do? I'll give you all this territory, plus I'll give you half an treasury. So Darius thought he could just bribe Alexander and his father, Philip Saxon would have been like that's a great deal. I'm happy, sure, but Alexander was not like that. Okay. Alexander is considering himself the Son of God, and you will discover that all these great conquerors believe that they are divinity, that they are a son of God, and they came on earth in order to unify the world. Okay, Genghis Khan was like this. Julius Caesar was like this. Napoleon was like this, all these great conquerors are unlimited, like, their appetite for conquest is insatiable. So, and this was unimaginable for these people, like, we're giving you, like, all the money in the world. And I said, That's not enough. Okay, we'll get the entire world. That's not enough, man, I want it all. So he kept on going, and he killed there, sorry, and then Darius died and conquered the entire Persian Empire. The problem, though, is that Alexander was being co opted by the Persian elite. Remember, it was part of the Persian elite that invited axan to come over, and a lot of the Persian elite were switching sides. So Alexander was incorporating more and more the Persian lead into his army, as well as the newest administration. And so his Macedonian army is unhappy about this, so they get to get they get together and they assassinate him, okay? And now the world is divided among his generals, okay? And this creates what we call the Hellenistic age, the world of the Greeks. And what is special about this world is now all three major cultures that came after the collapse of the Bronze Age, the Jews, the Greeks and the Persians, come together, and what we call syncretism. Symmatism just means a combining of religions to create the basis for Western civilization. Okay, the syncretism will also give birth to a new religion that forever changes the world, and it is called Christianity. And. Okay, so Christianity is comes from a merger of these three major worldviews. Okay? Now, once the Greeks talk to the world, they have a problem, which is, there's not many of them, okay, so how do they control the world? Well, they control the world through religion, through culture. So the what they will do is a man named Aristotle, who is Macedonia, and like this, something that you do not learn in history class. And it is such an important fact, okay, but the important fact is this, for the second the man who conquered Greece and Aristotle, one most famous philosophers in human history. They were childhood best friends. Okay? They grew up together, and it's something that you will never, ever learn in school, okay, but it's a very important fact that you need to understand. So another way of saying this is that the Macedonians had applied a cock of the world for a long, long time. So what would happen is that Philip the Second would go to Greece to learn all the military innovations, but Aristotle would go to learn all the intellectual innovations of Greece. So his teacher was Plato. Okay? So he learned from Plato and the Academy. And what Israel will do is he will take Greek knowledge, he will systemize it into a knowledge of empire. Okay, so what do I mean by that? All right, so we discussed Plato. We discuss how for Plato, what matters is the spirit, the mind, the soul, the immaterial. So this is the good, or the god the good. And the good emanates and creates the Shadow World, which is the world that we live in. But our goal in life is to return to the good by seeking knowledge, by learning truth, by learning something called sacred geometry. So for Plato, sacred geometry are these shapes that underpin reality. Okay, so once you're able to master sacred geometry, you're able to master the fabric of the universe. And so that's what Plato taught. Now, if you're an empire, you don't want this crap, okay? Why? Because there's an empire. You want to maximise the energy of each individual. You want the person to work as hard as possible, to make as much money as possible, because that energy then can be sucked up by the Empire. Okay? If you're just sitting around reading books, that's the we don't want that crap. Okay, so now what Aristotle has to do is create a new philosophy that counters Plato. Actually, Aristotle probably didn't create this. He probably stole it from someone else. But the philosophy is very simple. For Aristotle. He doesn't talk about the spirit world. He wants about the material world. Okay? For your solo what makes the world move is cause and effect. So I push you, you move forward, you move forward, you bump someone else, and that person bumps in someone else, okay, cause and effect. Now, this theory implies that there must have been a god called a prime mover. I Okay, someone must have been the first to move things. That person must have been god, okay. What's important about it in this idea, is the problem doesn't matter because the primary was the first to move. We don't have to worry about him anymore. Okay? All we have to worry about is the goal. The end, okay, we have to worry about the beginning. What to worry about the end? What is the end? The end is something called telos. Telos, okay, purpose, okay, when? What this means is that we're all here to achieve our purpose in life. Okay, so you are students. What's your purpose to learn? So you learn, if you learn, you become a good student, because you're fulfilling your purpose. I'm a teacher. My purpose is to teach as well as I can. Okay, so work hard and produce energy for the Empire. Okay, so that this is the Aristotle idea, and this is important, because

Prof. Jiang  29:25  
this conflict between Plato and Aristotle is really the underlying conflict in all of Western philosophy. Okay, we'll see this all the time. We will see this emerge in Europe. And so Plato becomes what we call the rationalist. So Descartes and Aristotle becomes what we call the empiricist. Okay, so please remember this conflict, empiricist. All right, Plato believes in mind over matter. Aristotle says mind doesn't matter. Let's focus on matter. Okay, that's all that matters. I don't know mine. Let's just focus on matter, okay, and the British Empire will adopt this idea. In fact, all empires will adopt this idea, including the American empire. All right, okay, any questions before we go to PowerPoint, and this is all clear, okay, all right, so let's go to the PowerPoint, the Greek legacy.

Prof. Jiang  30:30  
Okay, all right. So as I discussed, the geography of Greece is really important. So Greece is a very poor place that is mountainous and hilly, so it's almost impossible for an empire to develop in Greece because there's not enough wealth. There's not enough resources to support empire. So so during this time, there are 1000s of policies that are in conflict with each other, and this allows for massive innovation. What's also important about Greece is that it is by the sea which allows Greece to access different parts of the world. Okay, if you cross the Aegean, you get into Persia, which is the wealthiest part of the world. The Mediterranean gives access to Egypt, as well as to Northern Africa as well. Okay, so Greece really benefited from this geography. That's why Greece was so innovative, because it's actually steal knowledge from Egypt. It's still a lot of knowledge from Egypt. Okay, it's something that is not really knowledge, but you can see how close Egypt is, okay, so the Greeks sold a lot of knowledge from Egypt and from Anatolia, Mesopotamia and Persia. But they also steal knowledge from Northern Europe as well. Okay, so remember that the two major city states are Sparta and Athens. Thebes is the third major city state. Macedonia is up here somewhere. So where's Macedonia? Around here somewhere? Okay. And the thing about Macedonia is that throughout most of this history, it doesn't really matter. And throughout this most of this history is actually a subject of Persia. It's a very mountainous area, and so it was poor backward for the longest time. Okay. Okay, so this is a map of Sparta. Now, Sparta becomes the military power of the Greeks because, as you can see, the Peloponnese, it's pretty flat, which allows for agriculture. With agriculture, you need slaves, so the Spartans had to go conquer the people and turn them into slaves called the helots, and their main concern in life became, how do we keep the helots under control? Because they're outnumbered 10 to one. Okay, so the helots were both the major resource of Sparta, but they also the major danger to Sparta, and Sparta didn't really care about anyone else. So the Spartans were concerned first and foremost about how to turn their boys into warriors. And so the first thing they did that's most important is they took the children away at age six or seven or five. Okay, because we are. We discussed this previously. If you want people to be great warriors, you have to create anxiety in them, okay? If they are loving people, they don't want to kill the people, but if they are divorcing their parents, they have conflict with their parents. Then when they like life, they really got killing okay? So these boys were take or taken away from parents at age five or six, and then they were put up other boys where they were beat up every day. They were beat up every single day. When they were 1415, they had a mentor who was like, maybe 30 years old, and they became lovers, okay? And that's how you build Commandery fraternity in the army, and then when 1819 then initiation ceremony, where at night, they would hide in the fields and wait for a helot, a slave, to break curfew. Okay, if you stay up outside, if you stay outside beyond sun set, then you broke the law. And so what the soldiers would do is they would hide, wait for a hell out to break curfew and then go slit the guy's throat. Okay? And that was basically the graduation ceremony for response. This is a brutal, brutal people. But guess what? Guys, the Romans were the same thing. The Aztecs were the same thing. The Americans are the same thing. Okay, all right, so what's important to understand is that at this time in history, the Greeks are developing massive innovation in military warfare, because they're always at war of each other. And the major innovation is called the hoplites. Okay, the hoplites is basically. To create a wall together so you can bowl those over your enemy. Also in this time in history, the Persians are developing horse archers, and this is a major military innovation for them. What's really important for us to understand is that they these two innovations happen because of their distinct geography. You couldn't have horse archers in Greece because the land is too hilly. The land is too poor to support horse archery. Okay, you could have hoplites in Persia because the land is too wide. Okay. So what this means is that, yes, Persia is the dominant empire in the world, but when they go to Greece to attack the Greeks, they cannot use their horse archers, which is their major military innovation. And as a result, the Greeks are able to use hoplites and bulldoze over the Persians. All right, so this is the Battle of Marathon, which is the first great military engagement between the Greeks and the Persians, the Greeks, again, the Athenians, especially Athenians, they're going and causing a lot of problems for Persians. They are critic they're committing piracy. They're also going around and encouraging Greeks under the Persian rule to not pay taxes. Greeks do not like to pay taxes. It's still true in today. Okay? Greeks hate paying taxes, and so this is the first major military confrontation between the Athenians and the person is called the Battle of Marathon. And this is 490 BCE, and the Athenians won because, as I told you, the persons use horse archers. They can't use horse archers in Greece. They're forced to use infantry, but when it comes to infantry versus infantry, the Greeks are the best at that, so avoid head on collisions with the Greeks. Okay, all right, so this will lead to a series of wars between Persia and Greece, and what will happen is that there will be two major invasions, and they will both fail. Okay, the one that I'm most interested in is the purple, okay, this is the last major invasion of the Persians into Greece. Will happen is that they will create this language, okay, on the Bosphorus. They basically have ships as a language, and they will cross over. And this leads to the famous battle of firm rapidly. Okay, you may have seen the movie 300 where 300 Spartans stood against, like, you know, a lot of Persians. Well, the Persians eventually crush the Spartans. And what they will do is they will take Leonidas, who is the king of Spartans, and they will cut off his head and put him on a pike, okay? And that doesn't consider a major insult to the Greeks. Then what they will do is they will go to Athens, which is here, and they will burn down Athens. And at this point the war should be over, right? But what happens is the Athenians are like, You know what? We're a polis. A polis is not a place, it's a people. So what we'll do is we'll get another ships and sell off. And the persons are like, You can't do that. Man, Athena's like, yeah, we can. Man, so Athenians are sell off and the war continues. Okay? Athens should be destroyed, but it's not destroyed. And at this point, the person have won the war, and all the persons have to do is stay where they are and land their navy. Okay? They have a massive Navy into Sparta, because Sparta is a weakness, right? Sparta has helots. So all they do is land in Sparta, and the helix will rise up against against Sparta, and the war is over. Game over. Okay? The problem empires is they're lazy, stupid and arrogant, okay, so Xerxes, whose limitless invasion, he thinks that you know what, this strategy of winning a war for attrition. It's not honourable, because I want to go back and build a monument to myself. Okay? So I want to face the Greeks in a major confrontation, and this confrontation is called the Battle of Salamis. Okay? The Battle of Salamis, and as we're salamis, yeah, right here. Okay, and this is considered the greatest naval battle in human history. We should forever change the course of human history. Now, at this point, I keep on saying this, the war is over. You don't have to do anything. Just land troops into Sparta the Peloponnese and the helots will rise up and destroy the spartas, and the war is over. You've conquered all of Greece. Okay, do not risk your navy in a military confrontation. So of course, the Persians decide we're going to risk our Navy, and so this leads to a Battle of Salamis, whichever, again, forever changed the course of human history. All right, so this is another map show. You What? What happens? Okay? And now we are in the Battle of Salamis. And we know about the battles Salamis because of a name named Herodotus.

Prof. Jiang  40:10  
Herodotus who wrote a book called histories, and he's considered a thought of history because he wrote the first historical work. What he did is he basically went around Greece because it memories of the Persian Wars a few decades after the fact, and he wrote it all down, okay? If you read the histories, it's really funny, it's really interesting, but we have to take it with grain of salt. Okay, so he writes about the Battle of therpali, okay? And again, at this point in his history, the war is over. You don't have to do anything. But again, Xerxes says, I want a monument, okay, I want to witness a great clavic battle between my Navy and the Greek navy. Okay? So he sends his navy into battle, and, of course, they get destroyed, because, again, it's really important you don't fight the Greeks. Face on, okay? You don't do that because the Greeks are heavily armoured and you're not, okay. So this is a Greek Trireme, right? So Greek Trireme, the thing to recognise about is it's mainly soldiers. So they're really fast. They have some soldiers on top, Marines on top. Okay, so they're really good at ramming you and destroying your ship. The leader of the Athenian navy. His name is Themistocles and themesicles, is one of the greatest generals in Athenian history. He's actually the guy who proposed that Athens built a navy. Athens discovered a civil mine, and they use all the silver to build their navy to prepare for the Persian invasion, okay? And it was Themistocles who led the Athenians against the Persians, okay, and this is what the battle looks like, okay, so you still have this massive Persian army converging against the Athenians. But again, guys don't fight the Greeks head on. Okay? So they're like, you know, we're gonna fight them head on. So you see this massive army converging against the Athenians, and now they're converging against each other, okay? And the Athenians destroy them. Okay, yeah, don't fight the Greeks. Head on. All right, and now the entire Persian navy is scattered. The war is over now, because now the Persian have lost the Navy, which means that they cannot resupply. They have no more mobility. And so what will happen next is happen next is that the, so, yeah, the Athenians destroy the Persian navy. Will happen next is the sparse want to destroy the remaining Persian forces in Greece? Okay, this is why you don't do I'm sorry. It's just a dumbest thing I've ever seen. Okay, they won the war and they screwed it up. Okay, once you lose a navy, you can't resupply. Once you once you can't resupply, you've lost the war. All right, so this is from Herodotus, all right. So what's gonna happen is the war, the Battle of salamas, is lost and but, you know, the person off this huge army in Greece, and so the Athenian, sorry, the Persian king Xerxes, he's, he's like, I'm out of here, man. You know, I came here to burn down Athens. I've done that. I'm gonna go home now, and I'm gonna let my general, mardonius, take care of the Greeks. Okay, so mardonius is like, you know, I don't really want to fight these guys anymore. So mordon is sends an envoy to the Athenians and said, You know what the King of Kings Xerxes says this, we're really sorry we burned down your city. Really sorry we burned down your temple, but we'll give you a lot of money, so please stop fighting us. Okay? And this is what the envoy says to the Athenians. Can you read, please?

Speaker 2  44:06  
Why are you so mad as to love you war against the king? For neither can you get the better of him, nor can you resist him forever. You are acquainted with the multitude of Xerxes, Army and their achievements. You have heard of the force that is even now with me, so that even if you should get the better of us and conquer of which, however, you can have no hope, if you think soberly, another, much more numerous, will come against you. Okay, so

Prof. Jiang  44:32  
this is idea of empire, right? Just mass organisation and death. We are infinite in our resources. We are infinite. Our wealth, we can just scroll army after army after army against you, Athenians, you take this small, little city. Okay, give up already. And the Athenians respond with this, okay, we

Speaker 2  44:54  
ourselves are aware of this, that the power of the many meets, meets, meets is portion. Okay, oh, me is far greater than ours, so that there was no need to insult us with that. But nevertheless, being ardent for Liberty, we will defend ourselves in such manner as we are able. But do not you attempt to persuade us to come to terms with the barbarian, for we will not be persuaded. Go then and tell mardonius that the Athenians say, so long as the sun shall continue in the same course as now, we will never make terms with Xerxes, but we will go out to oppose him, trusting in the gods who fight for us and in the heroes whose temples and images he holding them and no reverence has burned.

Prof. Jiang  45:39  
So these two passages show you the difference between Empire and the Borderlands, right? The Empire is about mass organisation, death. The Borderlands, the Greeks are about openness, energy and cohesion, okay? The Athena say to the Persians, we know you're bigger than us, we know you're stronger than us, but we believe in liberty, we believe in each other, we believe in our gods, and therefore we'll fight you to the end. Okay, all right. So what will happen is that, now that Xerxes is gone, now that the Navy is scattered, mardonius is kind of screwed, okay, and so what will happen is the Spartans face off against mardonius and about paltia, and they will destroy mardonius. Mardonius killed, and so one soldier says to the king of the Spartans, Pausanias. Pausanias, your uncle Leonidas, was killed by the Persians, and they put his head on a spike. Why don't you return the favour and put the head of mardonius on us, on a spot, on a pike, and show it to the world and show how great the Greeks are. And this is bostonious response to this. Okay, can you

Speaker 2  46:51  
read paussonius? Answered, I admired your good intentions and your foresight, but you have failed to form a right judgement for having highly extolled It stole me, my country and my achievement, you have thrown all down against me to nothing by advising me to insult a dead body and saying that if I do so, I shall increase my fame, which is more fit for barbarians to do than Greeks and which we abhor, even in them, I cannot, therefore in this matter please the azinite. Azin nor those who nor those to whom such things should be pleasing. It is sufficient for me to please the Spartans by doing and speaking what is right as Leonidas. Leonidas, whose death you exhort me to avenge. I affirm that he has been amply avenged. Both he and all the others who fell at their mob play have been avenged by the countlessness of these men. However, do not you hereafter come to me with such a proposal, nor give such advice and be thankful that You escaped unpunished.

Prof. Jiang  47:58  
Okay, so what he's saying is that we won because the gods favour us. Why do the gods favour us? Because we are virtuous, because we are loyal to the gods, we're loyal to ourselves. We are not the barbarians. We are not the Persians. We are the Spartans. Okay, so you can see at this time in history how for the Greeks, what matters is their virtue, their faith and their loyalty, okay, but guess what? This all changes when they become an empire. Okay, so I want you guys to remember this, and what we're going to do now is we're going to compare contrast this when what happens when they become an empire? Okay? Okay, all right, so the Persians are scattered, and they're never going to come back. And now it's the Athenian Empire. And so what the Athenians propose is, you know what, it's always possible that the Persians will want to return, so we need to set up a alliance to defend ourselves against the Persians, okay? And they call it the Delian League. Why? Because they agree that they will pull the resources together as a Defence Fund against the Persian so think of like NATO Okay, North Atlantic Treaty Organisation, and they agree that they will put all their gold in a place called Delos, like an island in Delos somewhere. Yeah, somewhere, yeah. It's right here. It's a small island in Delos right here. Okay, guys see it, and so no one's allowed to touch this. So what happens is that the Athenians are like, You know what? It's probably safer with us. So atheist makes you steal all this gold, and now the Delian League is long. Is no longer a Alliance, but a Empire, the Athenian Empire, where everyone now has to pay tribute to Athens okay? So all that's happened is before these Greek city states have to pay tribute. To the Persians, and now they have to pay tribute to the Athenians. Okay, it's probably a worse deal for everyone. And what do the Athenians do with all this gold? They spend it on this. Okay, it's called the Parthenon. It's still there in Athens. If you want to go visit it, it's it's lost its former glory, okay, but this is what the Parthenon looked like during the Age of Pericles, during the Age of the Athenian Empire, okay? This is a statue of Athena. It's pure gold. They didn't have to do this, but they were like, You know what? We're going to enjoy our empire. They built the Athenian statue. Okay? And so at this time in history, the Athens is beautiful, it's wealthy. And what that does is it makes you lazy, arrogant and stupid. Okay, all right, so this is Thucydides, and he wrote the pelopida War. And he discusses why Athens went to war with Sparta, okay? And what he says is, what's because Sparta is the hegemon and Athens is the rising power, and therefore they were bound to clash, okay? That's not what happened Athens was the hegemon. Athens was the Empire, and his allies were rebelling against it, and it dragged Sparta into the war. Okay, that's what that's what really happened. All right, so this is what the war looks like. The Athenians have their empire, the Spartans have their alliances, and what's going to happen is the allies are going to try to break out of the Athenian Empire. Okay, they're going to drag Sparta into the war. Sparta does not want to fight Athens, but Athens forces Sparta to fight it, because Athens is very expansionist. Okay, so you can see how this red is now encroaching on the Peloponnese, which is historically Spartan territory right now. The problem is that, remember, Sparta has a weakness the helots. If the Athenians ever choose to land forces on its coast, the helot would all rise up together and overwhelm Spartans. Okay, so Sparta must protect its periphery from Athenian encroachment, so this is what leads to war, okay, this doesn't make sense, okay. Sparta does not want this war. The Athenians are extremely aggressive. They're expanding everywhere, and Sparta is forced into this war, and the Allies use this opportunity in order to try to break out of the Athenian Empire. And so most of television war is actually between Athens and its former colonies and allies, okay? Because Athens is a mafia state. Now, what's important for us to understand is that, because of the nature of this war, the way they fought the war was strange. Okay, so Sparta is not trying to destroy Athens, and Athens is not destroying, is not trying to destroy Sparta. It's really easy for Athens destroy Sparta, right? All Athens has to do is land forces in Sparta and let the hell out to rise up. But Athens doesn't want to do that, because they will destroy the equilibrium. Okay, you don't know what would happen. The hell out to want to take control of Sparta, they might come after you Athens, okay? So Athens has status quo power, therefore it wants to maintain the equilibrium. Now, let me ask you this question, How could Sparta defeat Athens? Very easily, right? They could just free the hell out. Right. Now, their army rises 10 times. They can now overwhelm Athens, but Sparta doesn't want to do that, because it would destroy their equilibrium. Okay? It would destroy their okay? It would destroy their social order. It would destroy their oligarchy. It would create a democracy, basically. And they don't want that, okay? So trying to try to fight the war in a way that allows to maintain the equilibrium, and that's why the war is fought in very strange way. Okay, they're not trying to destroy each other, they're trying to maintain a balance of power. What happened is that Sparta will eventually defeat Athens, but it's just not to destroy Athens, because if you destroy Athens, then Thebes and other powers could arise which could challenge Sparta. Okay, all right. All right, so the leader of Athens at this time is Pericles, and Pericles is famous for the funeral oration, which is considered like the most famous speech in western civilization. And I'm sorry, but at university, they will teach you that the funeration is a speech about democracy. It's not a speech about democracy, if you actually read it, it's a speech about empire. Okay, for whatever reason, the British Americans believe that Athens was the greatest democracy in the world, and they can do no wrong. No, no, no. It's an empire, and it's concerned only with. Maintain its empire. Okay? So we're gonna read from the funeration. And the feeling remember about funeration is that Athens is not at war. Lots of Athenians are getting killed in this war, and the custom is for there to be a massive state funeral to celebrate the war dead and to give it a speech to commemorate the war dead. Okay, so we can't read all the speech, but I want to show you a very important paragraph in the speech, okay, all right.

Speaker 2  55:36  
Comfort, therefore not condolence. Condolence is what I have to offer to the parents of the dead who may be here. Numberless are the chances to which, as they know, the life of man is subject. But fortunate indeed are they who draw for their lot of lot of death so glorious that which has caused your mourning. Yet who you yet you who are still of an age to beget children must bear up in the hope of having others in their steed stead. Not only will they help you to forget those whom you have lost, but will be to the state at once a reinforcement and a security.

Prof. Jiang  56:18  
Okay, so he's talking to these parents whose sons are now dead, okay? And remember, like during the Persian Wars, the Athenians were like, we're a virtuous people. We believe in liberty, we believe in our gods, we believe in each other, and that's why we'll win this war. Okay? Now what Pericles is saying to these parents is, you know what, your sons were useless anyway, but now they die for Empire, which is good, right? Now you can be proud of your sons, who are worthless, but now that they die for Empire, we can celebrate them. So what you guys do? You have more children so that you can protect the Empire? Okay? All right, that's what he's saying. He's also saying to the Athenians, listen, I know these men are dead and have children, but don't worry, because what we're gonna do is we will put these children into an into an orphanage and reach out to be soldiers so that, so that they can go and fight for the Empire and die like their fathers. Okay, this is now Empire guys. All right, so this is the Plague of Athens. So again, what percles should be doing is embarking on a massive war of expansion against the Sparta. And Sparta would lose very quickly. Pericles doesn't do that because he doesn't want to fight the Spartans. If he defeats the Spartans, it creates an imbalance of power in the Greek mainland. Okay, so what he does is he forces everyone to seek shelter within Athens, because, remember, Sparta is a land power. He doesn't want to face Sparta on land, so he forces everyone to go into Athens and hide behind the city walls. Guess what happens if you put a lot of people in one place, you get the plague. Guys. Okay, this kills a third of the Athenian population, including Pericles and his two sons. All right, so can you, can you read this? So what's happening is that you have these different islands who are the rebellion against the Athenians, or who say, the Athenians, we don't want to be part of the stupid war. Okay? Athenians goes on and says, Too bad guys.

Speaker 2  58:30  
Okay, keep on going. Athenians for ourselves. We shall not trouble you with spacious, specious, specious pretences either of how we have a right to our empire because we overthrew the meat, or are now attacking you because of wrong that you have done us and make a long speech which would not be, which not be believed, and in return, we hope that you, instead of thinking to influence us by saying that you did not join the list,

Prof. Jiang  59:02  
Macedonians. These are the Spartans, okay?

Speaker 2  59:04  
Macedonians, although they're colonists or that you have done us no wrong, will aim at what is feasible, holding and view that. Holding view the real sentiments of us both, since you know as well as we do that right, as the world goes, it's only in question between equals and power, while the strong do what they can and the weak suffer what they must.

Prof. Jiang  59:26  
Okay, so, you know, the Persians, when they went to the Athenians, basically said, we are vast empire. You can't defeat us, and let us be friends and if, and now that the Athenians have defeated the Persians, now they're the Empire. Basically. What they say to everyone else is, we're not gonna bother trying to be your friends. We're not gonna bother trying to convince you that we're right and you're wrong. We're just stronger than you to shut up and obey okay, this is the entire point of the Athenians. The thing is even worse than the Persian. Christians, remember the Athenians fought the Persians for Liberty once it becomes an empire and others want liberty, too bad, because Athenians are stronger. Might makes right. Okay, all right, so this war will drag on and because as an empire, you become lazy, stupid and arrogant, the Athenians will do stupid things like go invade a people that don't even not part of this war. Okay? Sicily, so, remember the Athenians, it's a mafia state. What they do is they collect tribute from the allies, but as this war is dragging on, they need more and more. And more money, so they decide to go conquer, conquer more and more people. So they decide, let's go conquer Sicily, because it's very wealthy. They send a massive expedition against Sicily. They get they lose. They drag Syracuse, which has a navy, into the war. Now, Sparta Syracuse combine against the Athenians, and the Persians come in as well. Okay, the Allies turn against spar of Athens, and what they will do is they will blockade Athens from thrice, which is where Athens gets most of its wheat. Okay, so now Athens is gonna Stark, so Athens surrenders, and this ends the peloponnean War. And this time, remember, as far as sparse could choose to destroy others, they don't choose to because they're not interested in women work. They're only interested in maintaining the status quo equilibrium. Okay? And of course, this gives rise to Macedonia, okay? Now remember, this is really important for the second what he will do is he will go into the Greek mainland and learn all the major innovations of the Thebans, the Athens, Athenians and the Spartans. And he will create something called the mastodon phalanx, which becomes the most dominant military force in history. At this point, he has a child's best friend, Aristotle, who will go to Athens and learn from Plato. And he will systemize all Greek knowledge so so that he can take this knowledge and turn it into a tool of empire. Okay, okay, so Philip second will focus on military conquest of the world, but Aristotle will focus on cultural imperialism. All right, so what makes folks such a genius is to understand, listen, the Persians have their horse archers, the Athenians and the Spartans have their hoplites. But what I can do is I can take all these major innovations together and combine them to one military package, and that allows me for coronation. Okay, so I can have flexibility and mobility in my army. The problem, though, is that for that to happen, you need to make sure that every soldier is highly motivated, that every soldier wants to fight. Now, traditionally, if you have an army, different section of your army get special privileges. Okay, usually the cavalry, because these are aristocrats, they get all the privileges, and everyone else, your life sucks. But what Phil second understood is like, no, no, no, I need to make sure that everyone is happy, so we focus on increasing the morale of his soldiers. And it's very easy, guys, okay, all you do is be meritocratic. If a soldier is doing a good job, you promote him. If soldiers doing a bad job, you demote him. And you think, that's easy, but it's not, because what it means is it'll overturn the social hierarchy. Okay? Because the aristocrats are just used to like doing whatever they want. But for the second one was insistent, no, no, every soldier will be treated fairly. This is gonna be a meritocracy, and this is what allowed him to create the world's greatest army. Okay? Now, once you have these different forces in place, you can now have major military innovation. And what is major military innovation was something called the anvil and hammer, okay? Basically what would happen is like your infantry will lock with the other infantry in place, okay? It's called the anvil. And then what will happen is your cavalry will sweep in from behind to smash the enemy cavalry. That's called the hammer. And this is what allowed Azmain, the great to conquer all of Persia, because no other army had witnessed such powerful force, and you can't possibly respond to it, okay, once the army, once the infantry, locks you in place, you can't escape. Then the cavalry comes in and smashes you apart. Okay, the angle and the hammer. So what happened is that philipsecond will go conquer Greece. Because remember, at this time, Greece are divided in city states. They're all fighting each other, not interested in actually conquering each other. They're just interested in maintain equilibrium. So Philip sake is like, you know what? Screw the system on a calm break all the rules, and I'm going to conquer everyone. So this is the Battle of sharonia, which is where he defeats a combined force of Athenians and Athenians, and now he controls all of mainland Greece. And now he's ready to do what is what he really wants, which is to conquer. Persia. Why? Because Persia, where the money is right, Greece is poor, Persia is wealthy, therefore I'm gonna take this army and go conquer Persia. So this is the year 336, when Philip the Second has conquered all mainland Greece, and he's now ready to invade Persia. In fact, he has also spies throughout Persia. He also has diplomats throughout Persia, negotiating with the local elites. Okay, so he's not ready to go and conquer Persia. Unfortunately, gets killed. Okay, so he goes to the wedding of his daughter, and his bodyguard kills him. And this historical debate as to who killed this but the edge is pretty simple. Okay, his wife, his wife, Olympias. Why would Olympias, who is the mother examiner the great, kill her husband? It's really simple. If you're king, you marry a lot of foreign women for alliances. Olympias is not Macedonian, and so there's a lot of people in the Macedonian court who dislike her. Azmain, the great is here to the throne, but as a young man, he was notorious for being a thug. Okay, he's not like Phil second is very deliberate. He's very strategic. Alexander great is basically a thug. So Philip second was worried about about Azmain The Great. So later in his life, he married a Macedonian woman, and they had that son together. Okay, what this means now is that this son is now here to the throne, and Alexander great Olympias taught Xander great from day one that you are special, Alexander, you are not the son of Philip second. You're the Son of God, Son of God. Okay? And so Olympias, when she felt that Philip second was about to steal the throne from exander, she had him killed. And we know because after the Philips, Azmain was killed. Who else is? He killed the wife, the new Macedonian wife, as well as a son, right? Okay, so this is a nasty person. Azmain the great, will take Philip's great army and he will go conquer Persia with it. Okay? And this is what his conquest path looks like. He will do this in like 10 years time. He'll conquer like the entire world, basically in 10 years time. What's important is the way that he moves. Okay. He moves really quickly with small army, which tells us that he needed cooperation from local elites. Okay, remember, at this time in history, Persia has reached an equilibrium. It's stagnant. There's no innovation going on. There's a lot of competition between the upper nobility and low nobility. Okay, so the lower nobility part was probably helping Alexander

Prof. Jiang  1:07:54  
conquer Persia. Two things I wanted to keep you to understand about this map. First of all, is like the moment that Alexander reaches Persia. He goes to Troy. Once he go to Troy because Achilles went to Troy, so Alexander saw himself as the new Achilles. Okay, in fact, he had memorised the Iliad, and he took the Iliad with him wherever he went. Okay, so that's the first thing I want you to appreciate also what he did during the war was he took on his enemies, tied his enemy to the backwards chariot, and rolled the guy around. Okay, just like Achilles did to Hector. The other thing that's really important, even more important, is that you see what happened when he visits Egypt. Okay, he conquers Egypt, and then he decides to go all the way over here to Ammon. Okay. Why does he do that? Because there's an oracle at Amon, and he spent a few days with his Oracle, and his oracle told him his secret. The secret is this, you are not the son of for the second, you're the Son of God, which, who is Zeus Amon. Okay, so Zeus is the king, king of the gods in the good tradition. Amon is King of Gods in Egyptian tradition. So in other words, Alexander was born to rule the world. He was destined to conquer the world. And this explains why, when he conquered most of Persia and Darius said to him, You know what? Here's a million dollars. Go away. Azmain is like, no, screw you. I want all of this. Okay, not only that, but even after he conquered Persepolis, which the capital Persian Empire, he kept on going to India. Okay, the only reason why he stopped is his soldiers got sick of fighting. The other thing about Alexander that's really important is he was known for his atrocities, so he burned down the city of Thebes and he burned down the city of Persepolis. Why would he do that? Well, if you understood that he saw himself a son of God, then it's possible. We'll never know. Okay, it's possible, like burn down Thebes, burning on. Simple list were ritual sacrifices necessary to prove that he was the son of God. Okay, so, yeah, he did a lot of like, bad things, but there's really nothing random about what he did. He thinks he the things he did were for diplomatic, military purposes. All right, so this is a map of his conquest. This is a burning of Persepolis. You can actually still visit Persepolis today in Iran. What he was doing towards conquest was that he was slowly killing off his father's most loyal man, so parmenion, who was Philip sakes top general, Alexander killed. And then cleitus, who was also not top general, he killed as well. Okay, now, historically, we remember these events as random acts of violence, but they're not okay. Alexander slowly needed to kill off his father's men so that he could create his own empire, okay, um. And so what happened was that eventually the other general, like, you know, eventually Azmain, is gonna come, gonna kill us as well. So they conspired and poisoned him. And now what they will do is they will fight amongst themselves and create the Greek world. Okay, it's divided into four major parts. And the four major parts are ptolematics Egypt, which is the wealthiest part of the Empire. Then you have Macedon, then you have Anatolia, and then you have the Seleucid Empire. Okay, all right. So the problem, though, is like, once you conquer most of the world, you have to rule over the world, and there are that many Greeks. So what they will do is they will build Greek cities to settle their veterans and invite more groups to come help them govern the empire. But they also need to recruit bureaucrats. Okay, so they recruit these Persian bureaucrats, because they're very effective, but they also recruit Jews as well into the Empire, okay, because Jews are a foreign people, okay, because remember the because these people are Greeks, need to admit to control and manage their empire. Okay, all right, so what I want you to focus now is on Egypt. Okay? Because historically, Egypt was the centre of the world. It was the cultural capital of the world, and Egypt helped to help give science and math to Greece. Okay? Now the Greeks are like, controlling Egypt. And Egypt is like, wait a minute, here you guys were barbarians. Now you're controlling us. Why is this happening? So now the Greeks need to explain what's happening. And so what they do is they create cultural imperialism. All right, okay, this is the Greek world. So they're building Greek cities all around the world, and these cities are very similar. There's an amphitheatre, sorry, this is a better map, okay. This is programmatic so you can see what it looks like. You have an epitheter, which is where they stage Greek theatre. You have a gymnasium, you have an agora, like, they're like, if you go to these cities, they're all very similar to each other, okay, and this is Greek art, which takes over the world as well. All right, let's just tell them in a second. And he and his father, Tom, in the first they will create something called the Library of Alexandria. Okay, the Library of Alexandria. What? It will do is it will take all the Greek knowledge in the world, it will systemize it and centralise it as textbooks to be taught throughout the world. Okay, so this is really a university to show you how wealthy the Egyptians are the when they built the Library of Alexandria, they needed original manuscripts. And so they said to the Athenians, hey, can we borrow some original plays? And the Greeks like, No, you can't, because we really love our Euripides and our ischylus and Socrates. You can't just take this stuff. This stuff is priceless. And the Egyptians said, You know what we'll do, we'll give you, like, a billion dollars as a deposit. And the things, well, that's a lot of money. Oh, sure. Okay, all right, so the Athenians lend these scrolls to the Egyptians in Azmain to copy. And then after some time, the Indian said, said to Ptolemy, Hey, man, give, us back, or the scrolls, and they taught me, it's like, keep the money. That's how wealthy they were. They had all the money. They didn't care, keep the money. $10 million to keep the money, man. I mean, things. Were pissed, okay? They were really, really pissed about this. Don't ever trust Yeah. Anyway, this is library of Azmain. It's part of something called. The museum. Okay, so what's really important for us to understand is that a university is not really about education. It's not really about literacy culture. It's really about a tool of empire to create a cultural understanding the world that allows the Empire to rule over people. Okay, so the library of exandria is an example of this, because, remember, the Greeks are ruling over the Egyptians are like, Why are you ruling over us? And the Greeks are like, because we're culturally superior to you. And how do you prove it by centering Egyptian culture, okay? By by downplaying Egyptian culture and by up playing by promoting Greek culture. Okay? This is cultural imperialism. Now. This is really important as part of the cultural imperialist project the Egyptians under Ptolemy, they also started to work with the Jews. Okay. Why? Because Egypt, Egypt needs to control the Levant as well. Okay. Who's the Levant? The Jews. The Jews are problematic because they were loyal to the Persian Empire. Okay, so how do you make them loyal to you? We bribe them. How do you bribe them? By getting their priests, by saying, a priest, you know what? We love your tradition. We love your culture. Let us translate your Bible into Greek so that we can celebrate your Bible and spread around the world. And this is what we call the Septuagint. The Septuagint, okay, it's really important in our history. And so the Jews were like, Yeah, that's a great, great thing. But not only that, but because of the level of exandria, a lot of Jews were going to exandria to help contribute to the scholarship there. Okay, so eventually a third of the people of exandria will become Jews, okay, but Jews are spreading throughout the Greek world, and so now what you're seeing is a massive syncretism between all three major religions, okay, the Greeks, the Jews and the Persians, because the Persians are administrators in this empire. The Greeks are ruling this empire, and the Jews are helping build this empire, okay, so this will merge all three major worldviews, and this will give us Christianity. All right, so that is the Greek world. All right. Any questions

Prof. Jiang  1:17:41  
was, was this clear? Okay? So what will happen is, like next class, we'll discuss Rome. Okay? Because Rome will now conquer this empire, and then this will allow for the rise of Christianity, and we will do this next week. Okay, so everyone was clear today, right? Okay?

