Prof. Jiang  0:01  
Today, we discuss the most famous person who has ever lived. There are about 2 billion people in the world today who believe that Jesus is God. And so a question then is, there have been many famous individuals in history, Alexander the Great, Julius Caesar, Socrates, Zarathustra, Homer, but it is Jesus that most people worship. And the question we will look at today is, why? Okay, so what I want to do first is discuss the religion of Christianity. And as you know, I grew up in Canada, and I studied United States, and so my entire life, Jesus was part of the culture. It was part of society. And growing up in Canada not being Christian, I really didn't understand Christianity. I really didn't understand the ideas. So let's go over some of the major ideas of Christianity. First of all, it's important to remember that there are many denominations in Christianity, so there's a lot of disagreements, okay, but these are the major ideas that most Christians agree on. First thing is that Jesus is the Son of God, and God Himself, okay? And he's king, okay? This this already is very confusing. Second thing is, they believe that Jesus died for our sins. So remember that we got kicked out of the Garden of Eden because we disobeyed God and we ate from the tree of knowledge. Okay, so Jesus died for our sins, and so Jesus redeemed us. Okay, the third thing that they believe is that eventually Jesus will return something called a second coming He died, then he was resurrected and went to heaven, but eventually he will return, and this will result in the Last Judgement, in which all individuals are judged whether they will reign in heaven or burn in hell. He will bring heaven to earth. And this is where Christianity is most controversial. What this says is that if you believe in Jesus, if you're a Christian, you will go to heaven. But if you do not believe in Jesus, you will burn in hell. And this is and this goes against all other religious traditions. Every religious tradition is basically like be a good person, and that's all you have to do. But Christianity demands that you must believe in Jesus, or you will burn in hell. Okay, so in other words, Christianity is a missionary religion in which, if you're a Christian, not only do you, not only do you must believe in Jesus, but you must go out and try to convert other people, because if they don't convert to Christianity during the Last Judgement, they will burn in hell. And that is why Christianity is one of the most aggressive religions that we have today. So this is all very strange, and there are a lot of questions in Christianity, and that's why Christianity also proposes the idea of miracles. Okay,

Prof. Jiang  4:11  
how did Jesus die for our sins? Why is just a sin coming? It's all a miracle, okay? Meaning, don't question it. Just believe in it, right? So Christianity is a very problematic religion. It raises a lot of questions. So then the question then is given all the confusion around Christianity, why do so many people believe in Jesus? All right, so what I'm doing now is I'm gonna explain to you what we know for sure about Jesus. This is not religious people. It's scholars who spent decades researching the evidence, look in the Bible, looking at the archaeological evidence, looking at all the writings of that period. And this is what we know for sure about Jesus. Okay? It, all right, so the life of Jesus. So the first thing that we know is he was born maybe about four BCE in a place called Galilee. I know in the Bible it says he was born the year zero, but he's actually born four years before that. All right, that's the first thing that we know for sure. Most people agree on. I'm talking about mainstream academics. Second thing that we agree on is that his teacher was John the Baptist, and John the Baptist is what we call an apocalyptic preacher. Okay, an apocalyptic preacher basically says, I will reveal the future to you, and the future is that God is coming, and God will destroy the evil people in the world. So right now is your opportunity to redeem yourself from your sins, to start a new life, because God is coming, and we must prepare for the return of God. That is the message of John the Baptist, and Jesus was one of his students, one of his disciples. But at some point, Jesus started to create his own following. So Jesus was preaching a message that is different from John the Baptist. Okay, so that's the second thing we know. The third thing that we know is the crucification, the crucifixion. Okay, so we know that the Romans crucified Jesus. We don't know why. We know that the Romans killed Jesus. And crucification is when the Romans nail you onto a wooden cross, and it's an awful way to die, because how you're dying is actually not through the bleeding. Okay, you got nails hammered to the cross. You're dying because you have no energy, so your your your head hangs low, which means you're suffocating slowly, and it takes about three days for you to suffocate to death. And so this is like one of the worst punishments that the Romans could ever inflict on you. And really, there's only two sets of people that the Romans will use crucification as punishment, okay? The first type are thieves and bandits. All right. These are considered the lowest type of people. The second type of people are rebels, people who are trying to overthrow the Roman state. Okay? So Jesus, in other words, was probably a rebel, or the Romans considered him a rebel. Okay, so the third thing that we know for sure now last thing that we know for sure is I did a brother called James the Just, and James the Just would inherit Jesus' movement after the death of Jesus, and this movement was called the poor, or another word for this is Ebionites. Okay, don't worry about the name. Just remember the idea. Okay. So these are only the four things that we know for sure about Jesus. Now what I'm going to do is I'm explaining to you what the Bible says about Jesus, what the official story of Jesus is in the Bible, and you can see how different it is from we know for sure. Okay, so this is what the Bible says, something to keep in mind is that there are at least four different biographies of Jesus in the Bible, Mark, Matthew, Luke and John, and they say different things, but these, but we'll talk about the main story of Jesus. Okay, so the main story of Jesus is that Jesus is the Son of God, and at this point in history, we have disobeyed God, and God is angry at us, and Jesus, being the Son of God, wants to redeem us. In the eyes of God. Remember, we try to become God. We try to kill God by eating from the fruit, eating the fruit from the Tree of Knowledge. Okay, and so now God's angry at us, and we can't forgive ourselves. So God. So Jesus decides he must come to the planet Earth and take a human form and then sacrifice himself as a scapegoat in order to redeem us in the eyes of God, okay, that's a plan. So what he does is he comes and then he starts a ministry, all right? And what the ministry is is it basically is healing people, okay? So he goes around healing people. If you touch. Him your cure of cancer, your care of all your diseases. Okay? He also dispels demons. So there are some demons inside of us, and what Jesus will do is get rid of these demons and cleanse us. Okay? And then he preaches the gospel, the good news. So he teaches how to be good people. Basically, the problem, though, is that a lot of his teachings go against Judaic authority. Okay, so at this time, remember, he is in Judea, the Roman province of Judea, and Jewish priests are in charge, and Jewish priests teach people to follow the law, to follow Sabbath, okay, to not work on Saturdays, obey the law of Moses, obey the customs and traditions of the Jewish tradition. And what Jesus says is no what's important is to follow the Spirit of God. So there's a conflict here, okay, where Jesus is rebelling against the authority of the Jewish priests. Okay? And so what happens is the Jewish priests start to plot against Jesus, and eventually Jesus is betrayed by one of his disciples, Judas Iscariot, and Jesus is detained by the Jewish priests, who then give him over to the Roman authorities. At this point, pioneers Pilate is

Prof. Jiang  11:40  
the governor of Judea, and so he asked Jesus, what did you do wrong? Why do the Jewish priests want you to be executed? And Jesus refuses to answer. Post Pilate doesn't really want to kill him, but there's anger from the Jewish people who demand his head so pitiless, Pilate, orders Jesus to be crucified, and then, and then he dies. Okay, Jewish Jesus dies, and then he's resurrected after three days. And then he turns and appears before his disciples and tells them, I will come back. I need to go to heaven, but I will come back when I am most needed. Before I come back, tell them the gospel. Tell the good news that I will one day return, and that I've redeemed people from their sins. And therefore, it doesn't matter if you're Jewish or not Jewish, you can all celebrate God. Okay, I brought God to you because I've redeemed you from your sins. So tell everyone the good news. All right. And so this begins the very idea of Christianity. All right, okay, so this is the official story that you see in the Bible, and this is what most Christians believe. But again, the problem, of course, is there are lots of issues with this story. Okay, so let's go over some of the major issues. The first major issue is, what does God have a son? How does it How does God produce a son? Aren't we all God's children. Why is Jesus different from everyone else? Okay, so in Greek mythology, the gods come down and impregnate a woman. But that's not what happened here. It's just the Bible says that God had a son. We don't know where he came from. Okay, so this is very confusing, but not only that, but the Bible also says that Jesus is God. And so this is, like, really confusing. Is he a son of God, or is he god? Okay, so this is the first major problem. Second major problem is, why is he choosing to sacrifice himself? How does that resolve the issue, right? We disobey God, and now Jesus will redeem us by sacrificing himself. But how does that work? Okay, the logic is kind of confusing. The third problem, and it's actually very problematic, is the Bible is explicit. It says that the Jewish priests plotted against Jesus, and the Jewish priests were responsible for the death of Jesus, and it's problematic because for 2000 years, Christians have used this as a reason to persecute Jews because you killed our Lord, our Saviour. You Jews are evil. But if you look at Jewish history, I will argue that this could not have happened. Okay, it could have it could have happened for like three reasons. The first reason is okay, let's just say that Jesus was rebelling against the Jewish priests. Jesus was in disagreement with. The Jewish priest, that's not enough reason for the priest to want to kill Jesus. The reason why is, within the Jewish tradition, it is okay to argue, okay, so at this time in history, there are at least three different Jewish groups, okay? They are called the Sadducees. Well, the Sadducees. The Sadducees are the royalty of the religion. These are priests that go back generations. Okay, so this is like the Jewish nobility. They call the Sadducees. Then you have the Pharisees. The Pharisees are, believe themselves to be reformers. The Sadducees, they maintain ritual. Okay? So if you are to sacrifice an animal in the temple, you have to go through them. The Pharisees says sacrifice is not what's important. What's important is obeying the law. Okay, so there's a major disagreement between the Pharisees and the Sadducees, okay? But then you also have the Essenes. With Essenes. The Essenes are people who become monks, and they believe, like John the Baptist. We believe that John the Baptist was in a scene that God is coming and there'll be a final war, and we must prepare for that. So we must abandon all materialistic belongings, Okay, guess what? Guys, there are also other groups within these different groups, and all three groups hate each other. Okay, so just because you disagree with the Jewish authorities doesn't mean they kill you. They just it's in the Jewish tradition to argue all the time. In fact, you go to Israel today, even though that war, they're still arguing with each other, okay, that's the first thing. Disagreement, rebellion, debate is just part of Jewish tradition. That's the first thing. Second thing is that there are certain customs and laws of the Jewish people. Okay, the Jewish people see themselves as distinct and separate from everyone else, because they are the chosen people, and as we discussed before, they're the Jewish people. They must rest on Saturdays, and they don't marry foreign man or woman. They don't marry outside their tribe. Okay? So these are two major customs, but they also, as we discussed before, they also don't charge interest when they give loans to each other. Okay? Another thing that that is not written down, which is commonly, commonly accepted, is, you do not betray other Jews to the Roman authorities. Okay, does that make sense? Okay? We can argue amongst ourselves, but we will not betray each other to non Jews. Okay? We will not fight among the Romans. That is an unwritten law this time. So I don't think ever in history, have we had a case where the Jewish people betrayed a Jew to the authorities that was non Jewish. Okay, the Jewish people, again, see themselves as separate and distinct from other people, so they will not do this. The third thing, the third piece of evidence that this didn't happen is remember, James the Just is the brother of Jesus, and after Jesus died, James the Just stayed in Jerusalem, protected by the Jewish authorities. That makes no sense, right? If Jesus, if his teachings went against Jewish law, and that's why the Jewish priests had him killed, then why did why was Jews a just who is teaching the same thing as Jesus allowed to stay in Jerusalem and not only allowed to say in Jerusalem, but protected by the Jews? Okay, so I'm not convinced that the Jews betrayed him. Also, remember, we discussed this last class, but the Romans are just brutal people. They kill people for no particular reason. So they killed Jesus. They didn't care. Okay, all right, so I think it's much more likely that the Romans killed Jesus for their own reasons, as opposed to the Jews killed Jesus.

Speaker 1  19:26  
Yes, so the real group that killed Jesus is the Jews, or the Romans.

Prof. Jiang  19:34  
So yeah, I'm saying that it's a Romans who killed Jesus. And we all agree it was a Romans who killed Jesus. What the Bible says is that it was the Jews who conspired against Jesus, and the Jews encouraged the Romans to kill Jesus. Okay, okay, all right, all right, so that's another question. Why do the Jews conspire against Jesus? And again, I think the story is not true. Then you have the idea of, like, Jesus dies. So a question then is, if you're a son of God, you divine. How do you die? And does death have any meaning? Okay? And then, of course, you have the resurrection. Like, why would you resurrect yourself and the second coming? Okay? Why would you want to come back? Why do you need to come back? You've already deemed humanity. Why do you have to come back? And then, why do you have Why do you have to let people know who you are? You've already deemed humanity. Why do people have to worship you? Why do people have to celebrate you? Okay, so this, this raises a lot of questions, and again, no other religion has this many questions. And so what the explanation is, is miracle, mystery, magic, okay, this is the standard explanation. If you talk to Christians, why is this all happening? Don't question it. Just believe it. Just embrace it, okay. But in our class, we don't really do that. We ask questions, we speculate. So I know there are 2 million Christians in the world, and I'm sure they love Jesus, but in our class, we're really trying to figure out who he is, okay. So what we want to figure out today is, first of all, what did Jesus believe? Okay, what did he teach? Is that really clear? I'm sure Jesus did not preach. Did I teach? Believe in me and you'll be saved. Okay? He probably did not do that. Christians tell you that, but Jesus himself probably not teach that. Okay, that's the first thing. Second question is, why did he become so popular? What was it about his belief that made him popular? Okay? The third thing is, why do the Romans kill him? So these are three big questions we're looking at today. First of all, what did Jesus really believe? Second is, why was he so popular? And the third question is whether Romans have to kill him. And so the argument I want to make you today is what Jesus taught, is what every poet, Prophet, we study this semester taught as well. Okay, so you'll get Homer, you look at the yahwehs. You'll get Zarathustra Plato. What they all teach. They all teach that there is a source. Okay, the source is the vine, The Good God, the universe, the monad, whatever name you have for it, okay? And the source emanates, and it creates the entire universe. And we come from the source. Now, our bodies are material, okay? So our bodies come from a process of evolution. But our consciousness, our soul, is the divine spark, and it comes from the source. So after our experience here on Earth, after we die our source, our spark goes back to the source, okay? And there's a constant cycle until we at the end merge to the source. Okay, this is what Buddhism teaches. Is what Hinduism teaches. So this is what Zoroastrianism, this is what all major religions teach. Okay, so Jesus was just teaching it for his times. So the question then is, if he is teaching what every person, every prophet, taught. Why is he special? He's special because the Roman Empire was particularly evil. Okay, so remember before Roman Empire? Remember the problem of the Iliad? Okay? Remember the Iliad where Achilles cannot forgive himself and his prime who forgave him? Right? We discuss how, during the Iliad, during that time, we all did good, when we all did evil, and so what's important is to forgive ourselves. Right? As long as long as we find the power to forgive ourselves, we will save the world. But by the time of Romans, okay, the Romans are just pure evil. They're demonic. And so you don't forgive yourself, right? And so the question then is, how do you explain the fact that the Romans are able to conquer the world through pure evil, and you a person did all good, but you're a slave. How do you explain that? How do you find comfort? How do you find thoughts on the fact that you've done good in your life, but the same time, evil triumphs, okay? And the message that Jesus came is to help people understand why the Romans triumph. Okay? And what Jesus will say is this, the Romans triumph, because the world that we live in is a false world. It is a corpse. It's a dead world. This is not the true world. So those who most embrace death and evil and hatred will win in this world. But this is the false world. What matters is up there. Okay, so and so, what you need to understand is this, the Romans have won by being evil. So in the grand scheme of things, they've lost. Okay, so think about Achilles. How did Achilles get what he wanted? He betrayed Patroclus, right? He sacrificed Patroclus, but because he knows he did evil, he can't sleep, he can't eat, he cannot rest. All he has, all he can do is mutilate Hector's body, and that's just a Roman way what Jesus is telling us this, I know the world is evil. I know that the rich, the powerful, oppress us and we hate them. But use our imagination, use our heart, use our empathy, and look into their minds, and you can see how to augmented they are, how every day, they live with demons that haunt them, how they can't sleep, how how they hate themselves, and how they hate to hate the world around them. And then when you see that for yourself, what you will see is they're more pitiful than you are. You may be poor, but you're at least you're not haunted by demons, okay? And so if you really want to do good in the world, you have to forgive your enemy. You have to love your enemy, because only by loving your enemy can you release your enemy from his demons, and that will save the world. Okay? So what Jesus is telling us is this, the enemies, the people who oppress us, the rich, the powerful, they are Achilles. Okay? They are Achilles after they've killed Hector, and they have actually no purpose in life. They're haunted by demons. And we have to be Priam. We have to kiss Achilles hand submit before him so that he can be released from his demons, and this will make the world a better place. Okay, that is the message of Jesus, and that is our mission in our in this world, in a time of evil and a place of evil, to look over our hearts, to look in the hearts of other people, to forgive our enemies, to let go of our hatred and to forgive our enemies, and then that will save the world. Okay, that is a central message of Jesus. All right, any questions before we look at the evidence. Okay, so I present to you the argument. Okay, the argument is this, Jesus taught a message of love and forgiveness, and that's what made him popular, because it reminds people of who they are, right? You may be a slave, you may think you're worthless, but Jesus is telling you there's still a spark inside of you that connects you to the monad, and as long as you use love, forgiveness, compassion, this spark will activate, and it will release you from your slavery, okay? This is a false world. Once that spark is activated, you will see the world as false, and that will free you, okay? And why the Romans killed the Romans killed him because Jesus was a rebel. He was trying to subvert the natural order, right? The natural order is the Romans at the top, the slaves at the very bottom, and Jesus like, No, it's the opposite, slaves at the top, Romans at the bottom, okay, these are Romans are trapped and cursed by the evil in their hearts, whereas the slaves are free, and they can liberate everyone through their compassion, for their love, for their forgiveness, okay? And that's why the Roman Psalm is a threat. Does that make sense guys? And that's why they had to kill them, all right? And then they made up the Bible in order to

Prof. Jiang  29:26  
justify what they did. Okay? Because, as we discussed the last class, that's what Romans do. Okay? They do evil, and then they get the Greeks or the Jews to write the history to explain why it was good. Okay, so in other words, and this is something that I will discuss next class is, I know this is hard to understand, but I'll explain it. Next class is this story, guys, it was the Romans who wrote the story. Okay? Because, as you can see, this story convenient. Conveniently. Excuse the Romans. One. All blame, even though it's the Romans who killed Jesus, and it puts all the blame on Jews. Okay, that's intention of the Bible, right? So Christianity is not an invention of Jesus. Christianity is invention of the romance, okay, and something I will show you next class. Okay, all right, but are we clear before I go into the evidence? Okay? All right. All right, so divine spark of Jesus. Okay, so the idea here is this, if you read Homer, the Iliad, the Odyssey. If you read Dante, Divine Comedy, if you read any of the great books, you will you will see the divine spark reflected in you. Okay, these great books are a portal into the divine The problem, though, is most people cannot read The Iliad or the vine comedy. Okay? So question then is, what do the common people do? And the answer is, Jesus is a portal into the vine, right? So if you remember the life of Jesus, if you recite his sayings, that will give you access to the vine that remind you of who you are. So, yes, Homer and Dante are great. I love Homer and Dante, but you have to be very educated in order to read Homer and Dante. Well, whereas Jesus, anyone can know story of Jesus, anyone can say what he says, and then that will give you access to the vine. Okay, so Jesus is really about the democratisation of the Divine. Jesus allows anyone to access the divine, whereas before you have to access the vine through poetry. Okay, all right, so the life of Jesus, okay, so, again, Jesus is Jewish. So the centre of Jewish life is Jerusalem, okay, right here, Jerusalem. And in the centre of Jerusalem is a temple which was rebuilt under the Persians, right? And Herod will rebuild this. We'll renovate this. Okay, so we know that Jesus was born in this era Galilee. As you can see, Galilee is by the coast, which makes this region extremely cosmopolitan. So from early age, Jesus is experiencing different religions, different cultures, Hinduism, Zoroastrianism, Judaism, okay, all right, so this is an AI depiction of the crucification crucifixion of Jesus. Jesus is in the middle, and as you can see, it is a brutal event. Okay? So we don't know much about Jesus. We only know Jesus from the Bible. Then, in 1945 in a place called Mac Hamadi, okay, this is in Egypt. We discovered lots of books with sayings of Jesus that we didn't know existed before. So what's important to understand is that after Jesus died, there were many different sects of Christianity that believed different things, and they argued with each other, and ultimately it was a Catholic church who won. Why? Because the Catholic church is run by the Roman Empire. Okay, so one major book that was discovered in in the in 1945 in Hamadi that was lost to us. It's called The Gospel of Thomas, and what I believe is the Gospel of Thomas records the true teachings of Jesus. Okay, so let's first, let's first look at the true teachings of Jesus, and then I'll show you why I think this is actually his true teachings. All right, so can you read the highlighted part?

Speaker 2  34:12  
Okay? And he said, Whoever finds interpretation of these saying will not

Prof. Jiang  34:18  
experience death, okay? All right. So, so, okay, listen, this only makes sense, right? Because, in the universe, death doesn't exist. Because after you die, your soul goes up to the actual plane, to the vine. Okay? So your soul can never die. But you have to recognise that you are the Divine Spark, okay, you first need to recognise that. Once you recognise that, you'll be immortal. When you don't recognise that, then you fear death.

Speaker 2  34:45  
Okay? Jesus said, Let him who seeks, continue seeking until he finds. When he finds, he will become troubled. When he become troubled, he will be astonished, and he will rule over the all.

Prof. Jiang  34:59  
Okay? Okay, so this goes back to the Plato's algo the cave, right? Plato's Allegory of the Cave is this prisoner who escapes his chain. He goes up into the real world, where there's sunlight, and he sees the truth, right? And now he's able to see, whereas everyone else is still chained as prisoners in the cave, and now he rules overall, because he knows the truth, whereas everyone else is still in prison in darkness. Remember that this is a painful process. When you go on the light, you're blinded by it, you feel absolute pain. You feel confusion. But over time, if you persist, you will see the truth. Okay, so this is the algo the cave. Okay, keep on going.

Speaker 2  35:49  
Jesus said, if those who lead you say to you, see the kingdom is in the sky, then the birds of the sky will precede you. If they say to you, it is in the sea, then the fish will precede you. Rather the kingdom is inside of you and it is outside of you. When you come to know yourself, then you will become known, and you will realise that it is you who are the sons of living father. But if you will not know yourselves, you deal in poverty, and it is you who are that poverty. Okay?

Prof. Jiang  36:21  
So this is really important idea. Okay, go back to algo the cave. When you escape the cave and you see the real world and you come back, it doesn't matter if you tell them what the real world is, okay. It doesn't matter if they believe you. They themselves. Have to go out and see the world for themselves. Okay? They have to break the chains themselves and then venture out into the light and experience pain and torment for themselves before they recognise the truth. Okay? That's what Jesus is saying. They people who tell you this stuff, don't listen to them, okay? They only guide you. But you can't trust them. You can't believe in them. You have to believe in yourself. You have to look into yourself, because the truth, divine spark is inside of you. Okay, so what Jesus is saying is this organised religion does not work, guys. So there's no way. Jesus would say, Follow me and you're good, believe in me and you're good. He would never, ever say that, because he knows you can't follow someone else. You have to believe in yourself. The Divine Spark is in you. Okay, doesn't make sense. So they are lying to you when they say the kingdom is in heaven. Don't believe them. Okay. Another thing that you will notice is we're all sons of the living Father. You understand? Jesus is not like, I'm the son of God and you're not. I'm superior to you. They're saying we're all sons of the living Father. Okay, also, and it's really important, he actually doesn't throughout the Gospels. He actually doesn't refer to the Bible. He doesn't talk about Adam and Eve. He doesn't talk about Yahweh, he doesn't talk about David, he doesn't talk about Moses, because for him, it's all fake. Okay, the Bible is fake. What's true is mind spark in you. Okay, all right. So again, all this is contradicting modern day Christianity, because Jesus was not a Christian. Okay, keep on going. Oh, sorry, let's keep on going. And again, guys, what you're seeing is this the similarities between the gods of Thomas and Plato's Aye the cave and the Iliad and Zarathustra his teachings, as well as Nietzsche. Okay, you see how all these poor prophets, they all think alike. They're expressing things differently. They're talking to a different age, new, different audience, but basically seeing the same thing. Okay, that's really important. All right. Continue reading. Please.

Speaker 2  38:54  
Jesus saw infants being suckled. He said to His disciples, these infants being suckled are like those who enter the kingdom. They said to Him, shall we then, as children enter the kingdom? Jesus said to them, when you make the two one, and when you make the inside like the outside and the outside like the inside and above like the below, and when you make the male and the female one and the same, so that the male not be male, nor the female. And when you fat, when you are fashioned, eyes in the place of an eye, and a hands in place of a hand, and a foot in place of a foot, and a likeness in place of a likeness, then we enter the kingdom. Okay?

Prof. Jiang  39:37  
So, again, this is similar to what we've learned before, right? What he's saying is this, we are born into this world, and as we go older, we believe in the falseness that we see around us, okay, but once we develop our imagination, and once you recognise that this world that we live in is our hallucination, this is a projection of our imagine. Nation, then we can take control over this world, and then that will allow us to access the vibe, okay? It is through the imagination which allows us to access the vibe, and it will allow us to create this world in a new place. We're able to see fashion eyes in the place of an eye, a hand in the place of hand. We're able to be our true selves, okay? And what we will understand is that we're all connected by the vine, the separation of like, male, female, okay, Chinese, American, black, white. It's all made up. It's not true. Once we're able to see reality as it is, we'll all be one in the same. When you make the two one we make the inside like the outside and the outside, the inside and the above like the blow. We're all interconnected together. Okay, we're all part of the same source. We have to train ourselves to see the truth from this falsehood. Okay, so again, the idea of Asha and Josh, right? This is Asha moving towards the interconnectedness of all things, the harmony of all things. The judge is the division of all things. Okay, all right.

Speaker 2  41:13  
His disciples said to him, show us a place where you are, since it is necessary for you to sit, for us to seek it. Seek it. He said to them, Whoever has ears, let him hear. There is light within the man of light, and he lights up the whole world. If he does not shine, he is darkness. Okay?

Prof. Jiang  41:33  
So the temple says to Jesus, tell us how to be like you. And Jesus says, Be yourself. There's a light inside of you. Okay, look for the light and like shine the world.

Speaker 2  41:47  
Okay, all right, come on going. Jesus said, I took my place in the midst of the world, and I appeared to them in flesh. I found all of them intoxicated. I found none of them thirsty, and my soul become a fleet afflicted. For the sons of men, because they are blind in their hearts and do not have sight. For empty, they came into the world, and empty too, they seek to live the world. But for the moment, they are intoxicated, when they shake off their wine, then they will repeat repent. Jesus said, If the flesh came into being because of spirit, it is a wonder. But if spirit came into being because of the body, it is a wonder of wonders. Indeed, I am amazed at how this great wealth has made its own in its poverty. Wait, so

Prof. Jiang  42:43  
he's talking about the materialistic world. Okay, we came into this world with nothing, and guess what, when we die, we're gonna go back with nothing. Okay, so this pursuit of materialism, this pursuit of wealth, this pursuit of power, makes no sense. Why are you here pursuing all this stuff, this gold, this wealth is money that you can't take with you. It seems as though you're drunk. Okay? So this line, the flesh came into being because of spirit is a wonder. Okay? So the idea is that it is the consciousness, the mind, that creates the material world, the body, right? That makes sense. And what Jesus is saying is this, if you think that the body creates a spirit, you're crazy. It's impossible. It's a wonder of wonders. That's impossible. Guys. Why? Because the spirit is full of wealth. The body is impoverished. How is it possible that that an impoverished body is able to create so much wealth, okay? And this makes sense, right? Our mind, our consciousness, is so vast, so abundant, but our bodies are so limited, so how is it possible that our small brain is able to create a universe of ideas and experiences? Okay? All right, so the idea of intoxicated, we're here and we're just drunk, but we are not thirsty for the truth. We're happy for the way it is okay, all right? And this idea is mirrored in a poem that we read before by Rumi, right? So you may remember Rumi, the Persian poet. He also says this, the world that we live in is a prison for drugs. Okay, so I'm pretty sure Rumi did not read Jesus Gospel of Thomas, but they're able to think the same thought because they're all being inspired by the same source. Does that make sense? All right, continue.

Speaker 2  44:47  
Please. Jesus said the phrases and the scribes have taken the keys of knowledge. This is

Prof. Jiang  44:56  
Gnosis. Gnosis means knowledge

Speaker 2  44:58  
and hidden them. They themselves have not entered, nor have they allowed to enter those who wish, wish to you, however, be as wise as serpents and as

Prof. Jiang  45:10  
innocent as doves. So Jesus hates organised religion, okay? The Pharisees, remember, are Jewish priests, Jewish leaders, and they create a hierarchy of religion where they say to people, only, I know the truth only. I have knowledge. So listen to me. And what Jesus is saying is, they themselves are ignorant because you cannot access knowledge through hierarchy, okay, through oppressing other people. You can only access knowledge by looking into yourself. So you have to come like the serpent, and pretend you don't know anything in order to access knowledge yourself. Because otherwise, if you are capable accessing knowledge, then the priest will see as a threat and they will kill you, all right. And when he's serpent, remember, it was a serpent who told Eve to eat from the fruit. And so what Jesus saying is, it is good and natural to seek knowledge, even if it means those disobeying God. Okay, that's what we're meant to do here, to seek knowledge, to seek the truth, to seek love. If the gods the priests, stop you from doing so, it's because you're evil, all right, because remember, the true God, the monad is pure love, pure compassion, pure forgiveness. He can do no wrong. He's perfection. And if you have a desire to seek knowledge, and you believe that knowledge makes you a happier, more fulfilled person, then you should seek knowledge, even if God tells you don't do so, because if that God tells you don't do so, it means he's a false god. Okay, keep on going.

Speaker 2  46:51  
Jesus said, Whoever has come to understand the world as fun only a corpse, and whoever has found a corpse is superior to the world.

Prof. Jiang  47:00  
Okay, so this is, this is what's gonna get Jesus in trouble, right? He's saying the Roman Empire, this great empire that you've built that ranges across the Mediterranean. It's a corpse. It's dying. It's dead. It's nothing, all right? And once you recognise this, once you refuse to comply, once you refuse to obey, they have no power over you, right? And so that's a threat to power. That's a threat to the Roman Empire. Am I going?

Speaker 2  47:28  
Jesus said, The kingdom is like a shafid who had Shepherd, shepherd who had 100 sheep, one of them the largest, went astray. He left the 99 sheep and look for that one until he found it. When he had gone to such trouble, he said to the sheep, I care for you more than the

Prof. Jiang  47:48  
99 so God, the true God, does not want obedience. He wants us to be creative. He wants us to seek knowledge. He wants us to discover. He wants us to explore. He wants to try new things. And if we do this, He cares for us. Then those who obey Him, because those who obey Him, those who do nothing, contribute nothing to the universe. Okay, when we love, when we imagine we are making the universe a brighter place. We are starting our life when you sit back and you do what we're told. We're doing nothing. Okay, we're like NPCs. Do you do this on NPCs? Non playable characters in video game? Okay? We don't exist. All right, keep on going.

Speaker 2  48:36  
Jesus said a man had received visitors, and when he had prepared the dinner, he sent his servant to invite the guide. He went to the first one and said to him, My master invites you. He said, I have claimed again some merchants. They are coming to me this evening. I must go and give them my orders. I asked to be excused from the dinner. He went to another and said to him, My master has invited you. He said to him, I have just bought a house and am required for the day I shall not have any spare time. He went to another and said to him, My master invites you. He said to him, my friends, is going to get married and I am to prepare the banquet. I should not be able to come. I asked to be excused from the dinner. He went to another and said to him, My master advised you. He said to him, I have just bought a farm and I am on my way to collect the rent. I should not be able to come. I ask to be excused. The servant returned and said to his master, those whom you invited to the dinner have asked to be excused. The master said to His servant, go outside to the streets and bring back those whom you happen to meet so that they may dine. Businessmen and merchants will not enter the places of my father, right?

Prof. Jiang  49:58  
So again, this. Goes against the Empire. What Jesus is saying is, the worst people in this world are the rich people. Okay, think about today, how we're supposed to worship Elon Musk, right? Because he's he's rich. What Jesus is saying is no Elon Musk is the worst person in the world. Why? Because the divine, the monad, has prepared a great feast for us when we die, when we go with to a monad, we will experience the greatest happiness, the greatest joy. Okay? The monads inviting us, but the business people are saying, No, I'm too busy. I'm too busy making money. I'm too busy doing evil in this world. So I don't want to go to the stupid feast. So they're the ones who will lose out in the end, even though today we think they've won out. Okay, so that's what Jesus is saying. Jesus is saying, Don't worry about the rich and the powerful. They may look happy, but they're not. At the end of days, when we all go back to the monad, we all go back to the vine, they're the ones who will not be invited to the grand feast.

Speaker 1  51:00  
Yeah, I have a question that God led us to be creative and like, do our thing that we want to do, like seed for The Spark. But since we are born, how can we really know the things that what we want to do like? I think that requires socialisation between other people, but if you socialise, they will brainwash you, and effect, to let you to seek for materialism. Yeah, okay,

Prof. Jiang  51:27  
that's a great question, and it's a problem, right? Because, as you say, your parents, the school society, brainwashes you to believe that only money matters, only grades matter, okay? And the answer is, you have to be brave. You have to be true to yourself, because you yourself know what is true, right? If we didn't know, then Jesus would not matter. What if 2 billion people believe in Jesus because they know that Jesus spoke the truth. Okay? So listen to your heart. I know it's hard, and most of us cannot do it. And that's why in many traditions, like like Buddhism and Hinduism, reincarnation is important. Because maybe in this lifetime we don't figure it out, maybe in the next lifetime, but maybe then, you know, 50 lifetimes away, but eventually you'll figure it out. Eventually figure out that what other people say does not matter, because this world we live in is a false world. Eventually you'll figure that out. And you're like, you know what I should do? I should do what I believe to be true. And then what you recognise is, oh, when I actually do what I like, what I enjoy, it makes me a more fulfilled person. And guess what? It connects me to the vine. Okay, I am a much more spiritual person now, and you can know, because look at people's faces, right? When you meet a rich person, his face is kind of evil. When you meet a person who is generous, who volunteers his time, who is a good teacher, his face is different. Okay, so remember Achilles when you do evil, evil comes into you and it corrupts your soul. When you do good, good comes to you and it brightens your soul, and you brighten the world with it.

Speaker 1  53:11  
Okay, without like education and socialisation, like if we are an infant, how do we know what is right or wrong, and what should we seek for because

Prof. Jiang  53:25  
of spark in you, right? Because of spark in you. You know when it glows when you love someone and that person loves you back. Your spark glows when you become a teacher and you teach students, your teaching, your students learn well, your spark glows.

Speaker 1  53:44  
You try different things until the you find the things that make your spark glow, yeah,

Prof. Jiang  53:48  
and say. The important idea is that our lives are infinite, okay? So we will die. And die is like a game reset, okay? It's just like you suck at this game. You die, you come back and you try again, okay, but it's your choice. The really important idea is free will. It's your choice to do whatever you want with your life. No one's gonna force you, okay? So the idea of when you die is you go back to the actual plane, and then you're able to reflect on your own life, and you come back and you start over, eventually you'll figure it out. It may take a million years. May take 1000 years, who knows, but eventually you'll figure it out. Okay? Because the world is infinite. Does that make sense? Okay? What's really important understand is you have to figure out by yourself. No one can teach you. I can give you the idea. Jesus can tell you what he thinks, but you have to figure it by yourself, okay? And that's why this is so hard for people to accept, because people don't want to accept individual responsibility. Okay, all right, okay, so this, this gives us. Uh, so, so the problem is this. The problem is that Jesus says that you, there's a spark instead of you. And it's your responsibility. You don't have to. It's your responsibility to let it grow. If you let it grow, you'll bring happiness to the world. You bring happiness to yourself. And then you were able to feast with a monad, with a vine in heaven. And as I said, as we discussed, it's hard man. It's really hard individual responsibility. You have to ignore people around you. You have to learn for yourself. So you know this idea, maybe a few people, 1000s, 10s of 1000s, will love this idea. But what about the millions of other people who just want to, like live normal lives? What can we do about them? Okay, so this is the book The brothers Kara mazov, by Theodore, dossier, FC, he's talking about the problem left by Jesus. Jesus comes the world. He tells us the truth. He tells us freedom is what will enable us to seek the divine. But this creates this anxiety in people, because, like, Oh my God. Now I have to, like, think of myself. Now I have to, like, go out into the light and feel all this pain, but I don't want to. I just want to live a happy life. I just want to see every day man, and then so and so. Then the church is like, Okay, we need to create an organised religion, and we need to fool people. Okay, how do we fool people? By teaching them that Jesus did actually say these things, and we're gonna not. We will. We will not worship Jesus. We will worship Satan instead. Why? Because Satan encourages us to enforce our will on people. Okay, we need to be evil in order to do good in the world. Okay? Think about this. These children are naughty right now. We can say to them, like, Jesus, Hey, man, you grow up one day, and then you won't be naughty. So okay, but in this process, you're gonna hurt each other, you're gonna do stupid things. So we have to be the strict father. We have to create this church in order to enforce the law on people to make sure the children don't hurt themselves, so that children can just be children. Okay? And quite honestly, most of you guys, 99% of you guys, will never grow up. So we have to be Satan. Okay? So the church, the Catholic Church, will pretend to worship Jesus, but actually, we're going to worship Satan, and so we're going to enforce the law on people. We will now be the evil empire. The Roman Empire is dead, okay, but now the Catholic Church will be the evil empire, and we're going to go around and we're going to persecute people who disobey the law so that everyone can live in peace. People want to be sheep, and you know what? People have the right to be sheep. And so we're going to be the shepherd. We will be Satan, and we wouldn't force goodness on people, whether they like it or not. And this is good for people, because now they don't have to accept individual responsibility, right? If my life sucks, it's not because of me, it's because of the devil. It's because of the Catholic Church. It's because of Satan. And that's what's good. Okay, so Vasquez is saying this is how the Catholic Church came into being, and what we'll discuss this next class in more detail. Okay, because Jesus left a huge problem avoid in the hearts of people. People want to obey. People want to be told what to do. People don't want to think for themselves. If you make people think for themselves, they'll feel nothing but fear and anxiety. Okay, so we need to impose order. So in this story, what happens is the Catholic Church is being, is being the evil empire. It is oppressing people. And so one day Jesus comes from heaven, and he walks among the people, and people will know, oh, my God, he's come back, and he's curing people, and they're all happy. But because the Catholic Church worships Satan, they need to arrest this guy, okay? And the Grand Inquisitor, the leader, appears before Jesus. They have a conversation that Jesus called a prisoner in the story, and he says to the prisoner, we know who you are. You are Jesus, and we're supposed to worship you, but we have to kill you, because you are a threat to the people. You're a threat to the happiness of the people. Okay? And what the grand Christian will say to Jesus is, we create good in this world by being evil, and your presence will destroy this and therefore we must destroy you. Okay, so this is from the brothers. Karim mazop, okay. Thou this?

Speaker 2  59:50  
Okay. Thou didst not love them at all. Thou, who didst come to give thy life for them instead of taking possession of man's freedom. Thou didst increase it and burden the spiritual kingdom of mankind with its suffering forever.

Prof. Jiang  1:00:06  
Okay, so what he's saying is, is you came to this world to free people, to tell them that the moonlight exists, that there's a spark inside them, that they don't think we slaves. They can go where they want, but that just confuses people, that traps people in their own fear and anxiety, life now becomes complicated. Okay, keep on going.

Speaker 2  1:00:26  
Thou didst desire man's free love that he should follow thee freely enticed and taken captive by thee. In place of the rigid ancient law, man must hereafter, with free heart, decide for himself what is good and what is evil, having only died in my image before him as

Prof. Jiang  1:00:46  
his guide. Okay, this is okay. Sorry. This is really annoying. Okay, for people, because before your teacher will tell you what is good and what is evil. Now the teacher is saying, You guys decide. Now it's complete chaos, okay? And again, it creates anxiety in people. People just want to be told what to do. Okay? People were like, you know, at five o'clock we're gonna have dinner at Pizza Hut. Okay? People won't be like, oh, what should i What should I have for dinner? Okay? People want to think, man, okay, keep on going.

Speaker 2  1:01:18  
But this thou don't know that he would at last reject even thy image and thy truth. If he is wide, weighed down with a fearful burden of free choice, they will cry aloud at last that the truth is not in thee, for they could not have been left in greater confusion and suffering than thou hast caused laying upon them, so many cars cares and unanswerable problems, right?

Prof. Jiang  1:01:46  
You're creating all this anxiety in people for no particular reason. People are happy just being slaves, and now you free them, and they're completely confused as to what to do next. All right, keep on reading. Only some 1000s. Okay, so, so what we sing again is your freedom is only good for the minority of people who can think for themselves, who aspire to the divine. What about everyone else,

Speaker 2  1:02:15  
and what of the rest? And how are the other weak ones to blame? Because they cannot endure what the strong have endured. How is a weak soul to blame that it is unable to receive such terrible gift? Canst thou have simply came come to the elect and for the elect, but if so, it is a mystery, and we cannot understand it, and if it is a mystery, we too have a right to preach a mystery and to teach them that it's not the free judgement of their hearts, not love the matter, but a mystery which they must follow blindly, even against their conscience. So we have done okay. All right.

Prof. Jiang  1:02:54  
So what are you saying? Is this okay? I understand Christianity is complete. Can be chaos, okay? But this complete chaos means people will never understand what your true teachings are, and people don't understand what your true teachings are. They don't follow it, they don't think for themselves, okay, so we created complete chaos so that people will not be forced to obey us, okay, that's why we corrupt your teachings. Keep on going.

Speaker 2  1:03:22  
We have corrected thy work and have funded it upon miracle, mystery and authority, immensely joy that they were again led like sheep and that the terrible gift that had brought them such suffering was at last lifted from their hearts. Were we write, teaching them this speak, do we not love mankind so meekly, acknowledging their feebleness, lovingly lightening their burden and permitting their weak nature even sing with our sanction? Why hast thou come now to

Prof. Jiang  1:03:54  
pander us? Okay, do you understand this idea? They understand is, why is there evil in the world? Because people don't want to think for themselves, so you need evil people to command people, to enslave people, to force them against their will. Now people are like, well, I don't have a choice in the matter. I can't think for myself. Sorry, man. Okay, if you actually give people complete freedom, it'd be complete chaos in the world. That's why there's Satan, that's why there's Satan in this world. This is why Satan must rule this world. Okay,

Speaker 2  1:04:30  
I meant to end it like this. When the Inquisitor ceased speaking, he waited some time for his prisoner to answer him. His silence weighed down upon him. He saw that the President had listened intently all the time, looking gently in his face and evidently not wishing to reply, the old man longed for him to say something however bitter and terrible, but he suddenly approached an old man in silence and suddenly kissed him on his blood. His aged lips, that was all his answer. The old man shuddered. His lips moved. He went to the door, opened it, and said to him, go and come. No more. Come. Not all, not at all. Never, never. And he led him out into the dark alleys of the town. The prisoner went away, and the old man, the key is closed in his heart, but the old man adheres to his idea.

Prof. Jiang  1:05:27  
Okay, so the person, of course, is Jesus right? And so the Inquisitor has these great arguments, and the Inquisitor is right, and what he's saying is, okay, Jesus, what's your response to this? And Jesus' response is basically, I forgive you, I love you, and I forgive you, same thing as what Priam did to Achilles, right? And as you can see, by kissing the Inquisitor rather than fighting him, the Inquisitor loses. He knows he's lost. He knows he's been humbled, so he lets Jesus go. Says, just get out of here. Please don't bother us again. Okay, this is not your world. This is Satan's world. And the kiss glows in his heart, the old man adheres to his ideas. Okay, so Jesus did not change the old man's mind, okay? But there's a spark in him that now glows, okay? The spark that he killed, that he tried all this time to kill with reason, with evil, is still able to grow glow, okay? And that's a power of forgiveness, even though the person seems to be the most evil person in the world, and this guy really is most evil person in the world, as long as you're able to show him the possibility of love, the spark will glow. Okay, now, what's the so the Inquisitor poses this problem like, Okay, people don't want to think for themselves. People lack free will. People don't want free will. What's the solution? The solution is the soul is eternal, okay? And you have to give people time. We're talking about, like, millions of years. Maybe not in 50 years, people figure it out, but in about a million years, people will figure out for themselves, okay? And Jesus, God is patient. He's loving, He's forgiving, he's generous, he's compassionate. So take your time. Okay, what's important is that people learn for themselves. Eventually you'll figure out being a slave sucks. You know what? It may seem as though, watching Netflix, playing video games, being online all the time is fun, but if you go outside and play that's a lot more fun, guys, eventually you'll figure it out, all right, and you have figured by yourself, so God is forever patient, okay? Does that make sense? Okay, so next class, we'll talk about the Catholic Church and how it came into being, and why it is. It really is a church of Satan, all right, why it's going to go against the teachings of Jesus, but dossier actually point this out how the Catholic Church and Jesus are competing forces. Okay, all right, now let's go on to Divine Comedy by Dante. And again, Dante is trying to answer the question, Why did Jesus have to kill himself? What's the logic of that? That makes no sense, okay? And traditionally, what the Catholic Church teaches people is it's because when we do evil, we become slaves of Satan. So Jesus made a deal with Satan. Basically, Jesus says, I will die, and then I will and then you can take my body, okay, and then you will have to free my people, and Satan's like, that's a really good deal, man God for exchange, in exchange for the slaves, sure, I'll make that deal. But the thing is that Jesus, when he died and he freed us, he cannot ever truly die. Okay, does that make sense? So this is called a ransom theory, and this is how, during Danish time, most people understood why Jesus had to die. Jesus died so that we would stop being slaves of Satan, and now we are slaves to Jesus, and that's why we must worship Jesus. And Daniel's like, no, no, no, that can't possibly be right. Okay, God will not come to free us so that we become slaves to God. God came to free us so we could be free. Okay, all right, so this is Dante, and what's gonna happen here is in heaven, there's gonna be a conversation between Dante and Beatrice, who he loves, okay? And they were gonna discuss the nature of the universe. And this is Beatrice talking to Dante.

Speaker 2  1:09:44  
The greatest gift the magnet magnanimity of God, as he created, gave the gift most suited to His goodness, gift that he most prizes, was a freedom of the wealth.

Prof. Jiang  1:09:56  
Okay, so the underlying principle of the universe is. Is freedom of will. If God is love, okay, and he loves people, then he must trust people. Therefore freedom of freedom of will is the most important principle, okay, same thing, if you're a parent, you truly love your child. You will let your child go and make his own mistakes. You will not protect your child, okay, even if it means that your child goes to the park and like, get kidnapped or whatever. Okay, you have to let him go. You have to let him or her go, because true love means trusting other people. Okay, keep on going.

Speaker 2  1:10:37  
You say. What I have heard is clear to me, but this is hidden from me. Why God? Well, precisely this pathway for redemption. Okay, so

Prof. Jiang  1:10:46  
again, the Catholic Church teaches you that Jesus redeemed us, redeemed us from our sins, okay, but then the question is, why did Jesus have to kill himself again? That makes no sense. Keep on

Speaker 2  1:10:58  
going, brother. This ordinance is buried from the eyes of everyone whose intellect has not matured within the flame of love.

Prof. Jiang  1:11:07  
So Beatriz is saying to Dante, yes, I know this makes no sense, because you're thinking of your mind, but the mind is not where the spark is. Okay, this Divine Spark is in the heart. So stop thinking with your mind and feel your heart and let the spark, the Divine Spark, glow in you, and then you will see the true for yourself,

Speaker 2  1:11:31  
the godly godness that has banished every envy from its own self, burning itself and sparkling So it shows internal beauties all that derives directly from this. Godness is everlasting. Since the sale of godness impressed and imprint that ever alters, okay?

Prof. Jiang  1:11:50  
So God is perfect. He's forever good. He's forever love. He's forever compassion, forever forgiveness, okay? And this is, there's a spark of God in us, right? The dying Spark, which is our hearts. So there's always this perfection in us, okay, keep my boy only men

Speaker 2  1:12:10  
sing annals. Man's Liberty makes him unlike the highest good, so that in him, the brightness of its light is dead. This is important.

Prof. Jiang  1:12:19  
Okay, even though the spark is forever in us, we can cover it up with mud. We can cover up with dirt. We can forget about it, okay. What? How? By doing evil, by disobeying. All right, if we do more and more evil, we forget the spark more and more, and it dims in us, so the spark can glow or it can dim, depending on our actions, but the sparkle will ever always be there.

Speaker 1  1:12:44  
So if, like you said, that parents, the true love is to trust, right? So if parents trust their kid, they will let their kids to make mistakes. But what if kids are, for example, being kidnapped and they're being killed. Is that still count as the love of trust? Okay?

Prof. Jiang  1:13:05  
Obviously, if your child is in danger, you go save your child, okay, but you cannot let your fear and anxiety of your child being kidnapped destroy the child's freedom. Does that make sense? You cannot impose your fear on your child

Unknown Speaker  1:13:25  
like you need to let your child to feel the anxieties.

Prof. Jiang  1:13:27  
No, no, no, no. You have to let your child do what your child wants to do. Your child wants to play in the go play in the playground. You let the child go play in the playground. Okay? And you feel like there's a danger. Then you go and make sure that your child is safe. You understand,

Unknown Speaker  1:13:45  
but still doing but still letting him to do what they want.

Prof. Jiang  1:13:48  
Yeah, okay, look, when you're a parent, you know what is safe and what is not safe? Okay, sending your child to a playground where there are other children, there are adults around, it's safe. Do you understand sending your child outside at midnight to one of the streets is not safe? Do you understand, okay? You know you don't have to think about this. All right. All right. Okay, keep on reading,

Speaker 2  1:14:17  
and man cannot regain his dignity unless within left emptiness. Man fails avoid with just a man's for evil, pleasure, pleasure.

Prof. Jiang  1:14:26  
Okay, so the problem is this, we do all this evil, and now we can't forgive ourselves, so we're stuck where we are, okay? We cannot compensate for the evil that we do. So what we do is do more evil to ignore the fact that we cannot forgive ourselves. Does that make sense? So evil creates more evil. Evil compounds on evil. So now we are stuck. Okay? So the first so by disobeying God, by eating that fruit, by trying to be like God, we created evil. And this evil forces us to be more evil. Now we are stuck, okay,

Speaker 2  1:15:08  
for when your nature sinks so totally within its seed, then from these dignities, just as from Paradise, that nature parted.

Prof. Jiang  1:15:16  
Okay, so we left the Garden of Eden, not because we broke the law. We left the Garden of Eden because we cannot forgive ourselves from the evil that we've committed, and so we keep on doing more and more evil. Okay, so the Garden of Eden is metaphorical,

Speaker 2  1:15:34  
and they can never be regained, if you consider carefully by any way that did not pass across one of these foes, either through nothing other than his mercy, God has to pardon man or of himself, man has to prefer payment for his folly.

Prof. Jiang  1:15:51  
Okay, so now that we've broken the law, now that we've disobeyed God, now that we've there's evil in our hearts, what can we do? Okay, and what Beatrice says is, there's two possibilities. The first possibility is that we compensate for the first evil, for the first act of disobedience. And what Beatrice says is, you can't do that because you try to be God, you try to kill God, so you cannot ever compensate God for the evil that you've done. Okay? And then she says, Well, the other possibility is that God forgives you. A problem, though, is that if God just forgives you, you won't learn anything.

Speaker 2  1:16:28  
Okay, man, in his limits, could not recompense for no obedience, no humility. He offered later could have been so deep that it could match the heights he made to reach through disobedience, man lacked the power to offer satisfaction

Prof. Jiang  1:16:49  
by himself. Very good. Okay, so do you understand this idea? Okay, you try to be God, so you can't ever ask for forgiveness for that.

Speaker 2  1:16:56  
Keep on going for God. Show greater generosity in giving his own self, that man might be able to rise then, if he's simply pardoned for every other means fell short of justice, except the way whereby the Son of God humble himself where he became incarnate.

Prof. Jiang  1:17:14  
Incarnate just means humour. Okay, so this is why Jesus had to come and solve all right. So the problem is that God has to forgive us, but he has forgiven forgive us in a way that allows us to learn from our mistakes and be better people. Okay, and so let's, let's use an analogy. The analogy is this, I'm a father and I have a daughter named Eve, and I'm a dog, and I say to Eve, I love you, Eve so much. And then Eve says to me, Do you love me, or do you love the dog more? I said, I love you both equally. Love is infinite. Of course, I love you, but I also love the dog. And Eve goes when and says herself, Yeah, but how do I know he truly loves me? So what Eve does is she kills the dog, okay? And then Eve, Eve says to me, Hey, do you love me, or do you love the dog more? And I'm gonna stuck the father, right? Because if I punish her, that shows her I love the dog more, right? But if I don't punish her, she's gonna do this again. Okay? She's gonna kill another animal. So I'm stuck. So what I do? So what God decides to do is this, the only way out of this conundrum. The only way out of this paradox is if I punish myself, okay? Because I shall have said to her, I love you as much as a dog, all right. So what I do is I take a whip and I hit myself, and Eve watches this. Now Eve knows, first of all, I do love her, because I'm punishing myself for her sake. And second of all, she won't do it again because she doesn't want to see me punished, and that's why she had to kill himself. You understand that's a logic here. Now it makes sense, right? God, had to punish himself so that we would be humbled by a sacrifice. We would feel so much we go remorse and regret for making God die, that we would never, ever disobey him again. We would never, ever try to become God ourselves. And that's why this had to happen, okay, and because of this, Jesus freed us from the evil in us and led us to the path of good. Because now all we have to do is remember Jesus, remember what he said, Remember what he taught, and will ever forever, will forever be on the path towards the light.

Speaker 1  1:19:36  
Yes. Do we like? For example, if I had done a extreme mistakes previously. Do I completely make it up or just forgive myself because I think I can't?

Prof. Jiang  1:19:52  
Okay, that's a great point. Okay, so, yeah. So the problem is, is? The problem is that there are people who do real easy. Evil in this world, okay, it's possible, like a man kills your daughter and then he's put in prison for the longest time, and it's he does all this evil. And so can you be forgiven? And the answer is yes, because the only way for this world to work is if people are allowed to be forgiven. If you are not allowed to be forgiven, this entire world, this entire universe, breaks down. That's why God is a God of forgiveness. Okay? Because you think about it, if you think, okay, if we don't have forgiveness, What world do we live in? We live in a world of vengeance, right? If you kill my daughter now I have to go kill your daughter, and then you're gonna have to go kill my family, and I have to go kill your family. Okay, so the only way for this world to work, the only way for it just to prevail, is if we're allowed to forgive each other. And previously, we don't have a tool to forgive each other, because we ourselves don't have the wisdom. And now with the right over Jesus, we remember that if Jesus forgive us, Jesus will forgive me always. And so if I turn towards Jesus, then I will be forgiven

Speaker 1  1:21:09  
like currently, I think I still could not forgive myself for making that mistake. Like I think whatever things that I do to make make up the mistake, I think I could not forgive me at that time, making that mistake, right? But at the same

Prof. Jiang  1:21:24  
time, you went to prison, right? You've been punished already, so judges has been served. So you cannot forgive yourself. Okay, just because you've you believe in Jesus doesn't mean you won't go to prison for killing someone. You're still gonna go to prison, but now you can forgive yourself because you've done your time and also because you remember that Jesus forgives you, okay, but the only way for you to move on your life, the only way for society to move on is if you're able to forgive yourself. Okay? That doesn't make sense. If in the world there's no forgiveness, this world would break down really quickly, because everyone would just kill each other. Just kill each other. Okay, so and again, what's happening is this, and this is what Dante teaches us. You're thinking of your head, okay, because you're still young. When you grow older and your heart matures, and you have more life experience, then you'll be able to feel your heart. Once you feel of your heart, all this will make sense to you, okay, but I completely understand where you're coming from, because at your age, if someone told me this, I'd be like, You're crazy. This makes no sense, because if you do evil, then you should be, then your entire life should be one of evil. If you do evil, evil should come to you, okay, but what Jesus is saying is like, no, no in that world, no one can be happy, okay, because the people whose evil has been done to them are so focused on vengeance, on hatred, on anger, that you can never, ever be a happy person. Okay, you leave the monad. You leave the divine. Okay, so when you hate someone, you're actually hating yourself as opposed to that person. Okay, all right, so now that we understand the this idea, now what explain is, why are we here? What's the purpose of the universe? Okay, can you read Alan?

Speaker 2  1:23:26  
You say, I see that water, see the fire and air and earth and all that they compose harm to the corruption and endure so briefly. And yet, these two were things created. If what has been said above is true that these things never should be subject to corruption. Okay?

Prof. Jiang  1:23:44  
So the idea is like God is perfect. Everything he creates is perfect. So that's the case. Then why do we die? And so what preachers says is this, God is perfect. He creates perfection. But he creates the laws of the universe. He creates the game. Okay, that's perfect, the things within the game enter a cycle of destruction and life, life and death. Okay? Because that's the only way for the game, for the universe to work properly. It doesn't make sense. Keep on reading,

Speaker 2  1:24:15  
brother, the angels and the pure country where you are now, these may be said to be created, and they are in all their being, whereas the elements you have mentioned, as well as those things that are made from them, receive their form from a created power. The matter they contain has been created, just as within the stars that well about them, the power to give form have been created. The rays and motion of the holy light draw forth the soul of every animal and plant from matter able to

Prof. Jiang  1:24:49  
take form, okay, to the understand the world. The laws of the universe are created,

Speaker 2  1:24:53  
okay, but your life is breathed forth immediately by the chief god good, who so enormous. Is enamoured of his own self that it desires him always. So reasoning, you also can deduce your resurrection you need. But remember the way in which your human flesh was fashioned when both of the first parents were created.

Prof. Jiang  1:25:16  
So the world that we live in is a world in which we can make mistakes, in which we can learn, we can grow, okay? And we don't have to worry about making mistakes because we die. All that will happen is we'll just return to the good, and we will be reincarnate. Okay? We'll come back. Jesus was resurrected, but so we will be resurrected as well. We have infinite opportunity to grow as souls, and that's the purpose of life, to learn, to make mistakes, to be creative, to imagine new possibilities. That's why we were created, and to ensure that we can continue to grow. There's death, okay? Death allows for a reset. Death allows us to rejuvenate ourselves and learn from mistakes. So don't think about this lifetime. Think about all possible lifetimes, and live your life accordingly to that. Okay, make the most of your life here by making as many mistakes as possible, because only by making mistakes can you actually grow as a soul. Okay, all right, so this is Leona Leonardo da Vinci's famous painting, The Last Supper. Now, this depicts Jesus before his betrayal, before he is crucified by the Romans, okay. What's really interesting about this painting is you can see there's a number here, right? 33133, when you go to the Bible and you look for the passage 33, 133, in Lamentations, you have this quotation,

Speaker 2  1:26:57  
for no one is cast off by the Lord forever. Through he brings grief, he will show compassion so great is His unfolding love for it does not willing, willingly bring a flee affliction or grief to anyone.

Prof. Jiang  1:27:16  
That's who Jesus is. Okay. Jesus came to remind us that we will all be forgiven in the end. So forgive other people. Okay, love your enemy. All right, okay, so let's look at what actually the Bible says. Okay, so this is what Jesus taught, and again, I believe this is what Jesus taught. Because one, the Gospel Thomas is a unique voice. Remember, the thing about poetry is that it is unique. It is the divine spark itself, so it cannot be replicated. Okay, so when we read the gospel Thomas, you can see this is poetic. This is beautiful and it touches you. It's a divine spark. That's number one. Number two is what he teaches aligns with every other prophet that we've studied so far, right? Number three is these other poor prophets, like Dante and Dostoevsky. They go back and they're able to see exactly what Jesus was teaching us. Okay? So that's why I'm convinced that the Gospel of Thomas is the true teachings of Jesus. There are also other teachings of Jesus that we find the Bible that also conforms to our theory. Okay, so this is from the Gospel of Matthew, and this is called the Sermon on the Mount, where Jesus stands on a hill and he's preaching the secrets of the universe to people. Okay, so can you read please?

Speaker 2  1:28:45  
Alan, Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are those who mourn for they will be comforted. Blessed are the meek, for they will inherit the earth. Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, for they will be filled. Blessed are the most merciful, for they will be shown mercy. Blessed are the pure in heart, for they will see God. Blessed are the peacemakers, for they will be called children of God. Blessed are those who are persecuted because of righteousness of theirs as the kingdom

Prof. Jiang  1:29:25  
of heaven. So this is his message to people, right? What matters is the spark inside of you. It doesn't matter how wealthy you are, it doesn't matter how powerful you are. In fact, it is probably those who are slaves that will benefit who are more virtuous, and as such, they will inherit the kingdom. Okay, keep on reading.

Speaker 2  1:29:44  
You are the salt of Earth. But if the salt losses its saintness, saintliness, how can can it be made salty again? It is no longer good for anything except to be thrown out and trimmed underfoot. You. Are the light of the world. A tonne built on a hill, cannot be hidden. Neither do people line a lamp and put it under a bowl. Instead, they put it on its den and it gives light to everyone in the house. And the same way, lets light shine before others that they may see you good deeds and glorify You Father in heaven.

Prof. Jiang  1:30:20  
Okay, so be the light. Okay. Every one of you has a light in you. Every one of you has the power to change the universe. Every one of you has a power to do good in this world. Okay, keep on going.

Speaker 2  1:30:35  
You have heard that it was sad. Love your neighbour and hate your enemy, but I tell you, love your enemy and pray for those who persecute you, that you may be children of your Father in heaven, he causes his sun to rise on the evil and the good and sends rain on the righteous and unrighteous. If you love those who love you, what reward will you get? Are not even the tax collectors doing that. And if you grade only your own people, what are you doing? More than others. Do not even pack pagans do that be perfect. Therefore, as your heavenly Father, is perfect.

Prof. Jiang  1:31:15  
We are in this world to do as much good as possible. Thank evil people, because it gives you opportunity to do good. Okay? There's no evil in the world. How could you possibly do good, right?

Speaker 2  1:31:30  
Do not store up for yourself. Treasures on earth, where mouth moth and vermin destroy and where thieves break in and steal, But store up for yourself treasures in heaven, where mouth and vermin do not destroy and where thieves do not break in and steal For where your treasure is there, your heart will be also

Prof. Jiang  1:31:51  
so focus on your own spiritual enlightenment. Focus on making your heart pure, good and virtuous. Don't worry about other people don't worry about money and these things, because when you die, you can't take these things with you, but your heart will always follow you wherever you are. Okay, keep

Speaker 2  1:32:09  
you on going. The eye is the lamp of the body. If your eyes are healthy, your whole body will be full of light. But if your eye are unhealthy, your whole body will be full of darkness. If then the light within you as darkness, how great is that darkness?

Prof. Jiang  1:32:25  
Okay? So this is really important idea, okay, but we imagine reality. So what matters is how you imagine this reality. What matters is how you see the world, okay? And how you see the world is a reflection of the spark inside of you. If you see goodness, if you do goodness, the goodness will come. This is also called the law of attraction. Keep on going.

Speaker 2  1:32:48  
No one can serve two masters. Either you will hate the one and love the other, or you will be devoted to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve both God and money.

Prof. Jiang  1:33:00  
This is a really important idea. What is Satan? Sin is money, it's power. Okay, so this world belongs to Satan. This rule, this world is ruled by Satan. There's nothing you can do about it when you leave that world is the world of God, okay? It's so, it's your choice, okay? Your choice is to triumph in this world or to triumph in the spiritual world. It's your choice. But you cannot have both guys. Okay? You can either you can be Elon Musk. You can have all this wealth in this world, but we'll see what happens to Elon Musk, you know, after he dies. So he won't die, okay? So his plan is, I won't die, then I'm good. Okay. All right, keep on going.

Speaker 2  1:33:47  
Not everyone who says to Me, Lord, Lord, will enter the kingdom of heaven, but only the one who does the will of my Father, Who is in heaven. Many will say to Me on that day, Lord, Lord, did we not prophesy in your name and in your name drive out demons and in Your name perform many miracles? Then I will tell them plainly, I never knew you away from me, you're everdoors.

Prof. Jiang  1:34:13  
Okay, so this is a really important idea. The Christian religion tells us that you must believe in Jesus to be saved by Jesus. All that matters is believe in Jesus. Doesn't matter what you do, doesn't matter what you say. What matters is your belief in Jesus, what Jesus himself is telling us. No, no, no, don't use my name. Okay, don't follow me. Follow your heart. In fact, if you use my name, it's because you mean to do evil in this world. So the question then is, how do we get from this to the Catholic Church, which is, No, you must obey us, otherwise you'll be condemned to hell. Okay, and that's the topic we'll discuss in. Next class, how the Catholic Church was created. And the argument I will make to you is it was created by the Roman Empire, okay, and not Jesus Himself, okay. So any questions, guys, yep.

Speaker 1  1:35:15  
Like said that people have infinite lives. And like, this is a reset of your life, and you can learn many times, but I think death will just clear a person's memory and they won't remember the mistakes and the things that they learn. Yeah, that's a great point.

Prof. Jiang  1:35:31  
Okay, yes, exactly. So the idea is the Divine Spark, right? So divine spark either glows brightly or dims. So when you die, what goes is not the brain. You won't remember anything the memories. But what goes is the is the spark. You understand the spark, if it glows really brightly, it goes up to a higher plane. You're closer to the monad, you're closer to God, and therefore you feel more pleasure, right? But if your Spark has been dim, it goes to a lower place. And so what you want to do is obviously glow that spark as much as possible, right? And and so again, I know this is hard to understand, but most people will not figure this out. Okay? You understand it may, it may take, take, like, 50 lifetimes before you figure out. You know what, I should really try to glow my my spark. It may take 1000 lifetimes, a million life. Who knows? But it's your choice. You understand. Someone's will figure out quick, more quicker than others. Okay, so this, this is the thing that you must remember. Everyone that you teaches teaches us, like when you die, you die, you won't, you won't remember how much money you have. You won't remember anything, okay, but what will what you what you but what you will remember, what you will leave behind is the amount of goodness you did, or the amount of evil you did. Okay, does that make sense? Okay, any more questions? Guys? Okay, great. So next class we do the rise of the Catholic Church. Okay?

