Prof. Jiang  0:00  
Azmain, good morning class. Welcome to our first class. And today, what I want to do is provide the framework for how we will learn the semester. What are we learning? How are we learning? Why are we learning? All right, so this is a class of ideas. So it's really important for you to pay attention and understand how these ideas connect with each other. If I'm not being clear, ask me a question. In fact, make it a habit to ask as many questions as possible, because that way you will learn more. Learning will be more fun for you, and learning will be much more clearer to you. Okay, so let's get in the habit of asking questions. So wherever I am confusing, wherever I'm speaking too fast, wherever you don't understand, interrupt me. Okay, let's get them to happen. All right, so I first want to talk about Immanuel Kant. We will be discussing a lot this semester, because he is the greatest philosopher in Western history, and he teaches us. He taught us how the world works, and that's what he told us. He told us that we can never know the objective reality. There is an objective reality, what he calls the no mana Okay, or the things in themselves that is not knowable to us, that is a world we can never access. Why? Because we perceive the world through our senses. Our senses, our perception, warps the world and changes it into a structure that we can process, called the phenomena. Which are the things that appear to us? Okay? So the example is time and space. Time and space do not exist outside of us. Time and Space do not exist in reality, but for us to understand reality, we need to add in time and space. That's the example. All right, so how the world works is, we perceive the world, we perceive the nomina and turn it into the phenomena for us to process. In other words, and this is really important, reality is what we imagine it to be. There is no objective reality. Reality is what we imagine it to be. Life is a constant process, a constant act of imagination. All right, that's, that's Immanuel Kant. That's the first idea I want you to understand. So what I want, I want to do in this class this semester, is train you or teach you or inspire you to augment your imagination so that you see the world much more clearly. This class is not about what to think, it's about how to think. All right?

Prof. Jiang  4:04  
All right, so let me explain the structure of the course. So there's past, there's present, and there's future. We'll be looking at all three this semester, the past, the present and the future. We were analysing all three in order to construct a more objective reality for ourselves. We will not succeed. We will fail, but the process of trying will train our minds to think much more critically about the world. So let me explain how in the present we have geopolitics when we study geopolitics. For example, why is there war in Ukraine? Why is there War in the middle? East, what will happen? We'll be studying geopolitics, and we'll try to understand why this is happening. We'll try to formulate an ethical model of geopolitics, okay, an analytical model. We will then use this ethical model to make predictions about the future. Why do we do this? Because these predictions will tell us if our ethical model is correct or not. Does that make sense? It's no different from artificial intelligence. How do you know if your artificial intelligence, the model is correct or not? Well, you test it against reality. Okay, there's no difference between that artificial intelligence system and what we're trying to do here. And why are we doing this? Because if we're able to have an ethical model that makes correct predictions, then we can take all this and go back and analyse the past to UN to reveal the secret history of the world. That is a project we are undertaking this semester to discover for ourselves the secret history of humanity, because you may not know this, but all the history that you learn in school, all that history that you think you know it is false, okay, The history that you know, the history that you believe it is a system implanted into your brains by powerful people. Okay, so the real question that we're looking at this semester is really, how does power work? Because if we can figure this out, then you will achieve liberation. You achieve freedom. You understand how you're being manipulated by others, and therefore you'll be free. You'll be empowered to live the way you want to live to see the world that is true to you. So let me give you three cover examples of how power works.

Prof. Jiang  7:38  
The first example is money. Let us do a thought experiment. I'm a bank. Okay? I decide I want to open a bank,

Prof. Jiang  7:59  
and now you're allowed to put money in the bank. Okay, so all of you get together and you put $5 million in the bank, not $5 million now, why do you put $5 million into my bank? Because I promise you, 1% interest, right? 1% interest, that's a really good deal. But now, because I owe you some money, right, I owe you 1% interest, I now need to go make money for myself. So I have a friend who's building a restaurant, and he says, I need $5 million to build a restaurant, and after a year, I will pay back 10% interest. Okay, 10% interest, and so I make a 9% profit, and I can use that to pay my employees to pay myself a salary to build a new building. Okay, so now I want you to think about this on the bank. I got $5 million in deposit money, then I gave out a 5 million feminine loan. Today. How much money is in the bank? Countless? A how much money now do I have? I got five mile loss from you guys, then I gave it out to someone else, right? So how much money is in the bank right now? Zero is zero, right? It should be zero. Logically, the answer is zero. In fact, zero is the answer that you are taught in economics. It's what you are taught, yeah.

Speaker 1  9:54  
Zero is not an answer. You cannot loan all the money that you have. Like, for example, if they will have a limit, like, like 25%

Prof. Jiang  10:06  
I don't know, okay, maybe 10% so you can only loan like, 4 million pounds. Okay, yeah. Okay, really good point. Okay, oh yes. Okay, so that's really good. So in economics, you learn about the idea of the fractional reserve system. Okay, what's fractional reserve? As you say, you must leave behind a certain amount of money. It could be 7% it could be 10% depends on the country, okay, let's say 10% so theoretically, I can, I can actually lend out $5 million I only lend out $4.5 million okay, you're right. Okay, that's, that's, that's law as well. Okay, um, actually, okay, let's say I level $4.5 million okay, now how much do I have in the bank? Yeah, half a million. Right. Okay, so, again, this is what you're taught in economics. This is what makes logical sense, right? The correct answer, what actually happens in real life is you have, you now have $9.5 million okay, that is the correct answer. So this makes no sense, right? But it happens in reality. And how do we know? Because over the past 20 years, Chinese banks, like the Bank of China, the Bank of Industry and Commerce, the agriculture Bank of China. If you Google these banks, what you will see is, these past 20 years, these banks have become the largest in the world. How did it happen? Was it because Chinese people got rich and put all the money in the bank? No, that's not what happened. What happened guys? What happened was these banks start to lend money out to corporations, to government, to people, to build skyscrapers, to build roads. In other words, the banks start to create money out of nothing in order to finance China's infrastructure projects. And that's what banks are allowed to do. They're allowed to print money, create money out of nothing. Does that make sense? Now the question then is, wait a minute here, that's gonna absurd. How this system come into being? How is it created? Okay, well, actually, there's a very easy explanation for where we got the system from, all right, so let me explain the history and the origin of the system. So in the beginning, it was merchants who engaged in finance because merchants needed money in order to facilitate trade, and some merchants became extremely wealthy, and when they became very wealthy, they started banks in order to support trade. And other merchants, okay, so these banks traded in gold, because that was the primary source and supply of money back then. Okay, so what happened is you would come and you would put your money, your gold, in the bank for safekeeping, and the bank would give you a contract, right? A contract is just saying, Thank you for giving me your gold. I promise to give back your gold at any time that you want it. And that's what we call a receipt, right? And this would allow for better and easier trade, because now I can take this contract and I can go to England, okay, maybe I'm based in Italy, but now I can go to England and say, Listen, I need to buy cotton or bananas from you. And the person is like, Well, what do you give me? I'm gonna give you gold, right? So I take the receipt and I give it to you, right? And why do we and why do we do this? Because it's a lot easier than giving gold to other people. And so this system would facilitate trade throughout the world. Doesn't make sense. Now I'm the bank. I have all this gold, and I want to make money with it, so I want to give it to other people. So other merchants would come, come to me and say, Listen, I need gold. Can you lend me out gold? Right? Him, but I say to him, yeah, but if I give out the gold you have a security issue, it's inconvenient for you. So why don't I give you a receipt, a contract instead? Does that make sense? Because all I need is a contract. All needs to receipt in order to go and do trade elsewhere, right? So, so by doing this, what I've done is I've doubled the gold in my bank, right? I've created money out of nothing. So the gold is still 5 million. That hasn't changed, but the receipt is now 5 million plus 5 million, so theoretically I now have 10 million in the bank. All right, so that's how money and finance works. Now there's a problem with the system. What's the problem with the system? What do you mean?

Prof. Jiang  16:20  
Okay, that's a great question. Okay, why is it that people believe in me? Okay, the answer is very simple. The answer is because most of you of human history, people didn't need money. If you, if you were just a normal person, what were you doing? Were you in a village, growing crops? If you wanted to, like, get new stuff, what would you do? You would trade with someone else, right? Maybe you have a goal that I want, well, then I would trade you. Well, cow for it. So we didn't actually need money. So for most of human history, no one had any need for money. It was only in certain circumstances that you would want money. So for example, marriage, right, okay, so throughout most of human history, money represented debt that could be unpaid. Oh, sorry, debt that could never be repaid. So, for example, a very common thing is maybe you and I fight and I kill you. Well, in theory, your family should not come and kill me, but obviously that would create a lot of problems, right? So the way to settle dispute is I would give your family money, because money was symbolically meant to say, I'm sorry I killed you. This is a debt that can never be repaid. That's what money was used for. In most circumstances throughout human history, there was no actually real use for money. It was symbolic. But with the rise of trade with merchants, they needed money in order to facilitate the trade. But these merchants all knew each other, so they trusted each other anyway. So money was a mechanism for them to trade easier. Okay, does that make sense? All right, okay, so let's go back to the question. This system looks great. I can print money out, nothing, but there's a problem with this system. What is the problem? There's a problem here. Okay, that's

Prof. Jiang  18:37  
actually a great question. Okay, so Yeah, is it possible to forge the contract? Okay, so that's a really good point. The problem is, so the answer is that they all knew each other anyway. Okay, it's a very small circle. Again, we have not reached the modern period where it's a lot of people using money. If that's the case, then fortune becomes a problem. We'll discuss this in future classes, okay, counterfeiting, but at this point in history, forgery is actually not a big issue. There's actually a bigger issue, and it's a huge issue. What's the issue? I have $5 million of gold, right? There's about $10 million of gold out there in receipts. What's the problem with that? The problem is that if everyone wants to go at the same time, I go bankrupt, right? Because I lose my reputation. The contract says that at any time you want the gold, I must give it to you. But if I have, like, if there's $100 million in gold contracts, but I only have $10 million in gold, only if 15 million wants the gold back, then I'm screwed. If this is what we call a big. Bank run. Okay, a bank run, and this is a huge problem for merchants. Okay, there's also another problem with the system. The problem is this, who do I usually lend my money to? Do you guys know if I'm a bank, development, merchant. Who do I usually lend my money to? Okay? Guys, today, we lend the money to entrepreneurs. But back then, there really weren't entrepreneurs. There were kings and noble people, and what do they do all the time? What they need money to fight wars? Okay? That's why, that's why there's a demand for gold. Because I'm a king, I need to fight a war, usually against my brother or someone else to control this territory. Right now, the problem with this is I could get killed, in which case, oops. But also, what's much more common is the king would be like, screw you bank. I don't need to pay you back. Okay, so there's actually a lot of risk with this system, so over time, develop a system to mitigate or reduce this risk. Okay, what would they do? What they would do is they would create cartels. Cartels are just partnerships. So maybe this bank works with a little bank works with a little bank throughout Europe, and the way they establish these cartels is usually through intermarriage, right? They would marry each other, they would combine together, and that way, let's say, let's say 15 million of receipts. Wants back the goal, but there's only 10 million. Well, guess what? You just go to the bank. Okay, and let's just say a king decides I'm not gonna pay you back. Bank. Well, your bank works with other banks to establish a new enemy, to kill the king to get the money back, you understand? And this system is what we call today, central banking. And what you will learn in this class is central banking controls the world today. Okay, it. Now, what's really important about this system is that it's based on power, right? And what power is you can turn nothing, money, the contract, into everything. That's what money is. Okay? So we live in a world in which banks can print out money, right? So now let's ask ourselves a question. Wait a minute here, if the banks can print as much money as possible. Why do we have poverty? Right? Because we just give money to poor people and they won't be poor anymore. Why we have poverty if there's all the food in the world that we want, why are people starving still? Why? Okay, so we don't have limited resources. We have scarcity. Okay, right? So that is the common answer, scarcity. We have poverty because of scarcity. But I already told you this, they can put money out of nothing. So money is infinite. Money is an infinite resource. So why are we? Why do we have poor people? Then that's kind of strange. Our body

Speaker 2  24:01  
just, use for trade, they still have limited resources. The actual need, like

Prof. Jiang  24:11  
the actual needs. You see, what's happening is this, you all believe money is scarce, okay, I just spent the past 1020 minutes explain to you it's not scarce, it's infinite. It's just a number we can at any time, print out as much money as we need. Okay, so that's how power works. Power has brainwashed you into thinking something that is not true. You've been taught from the first day that money is scarce, but it's not scarce, it's infinite. And what I say to you, you still believe this? Okay, so you have to get that out of your head. Money is not scarce, it is infinite. So let's go back to the question, why is there poverty in this world? Why do people starve? Why is there inequality in this world? Why are there poor people? Why are there rich people? What's the answer?

Unknown Speaker  25:09  
Because they don't print infinite

Prof. Jiang  25:12  
money, okay? Because it's scarce. So guys, this is amazing. Okay, you guys, can't get out of your head. You think money is scarce. You think it is not possible to print infinite money when I already told you it is possible to print infinite money, because they do this all the time.

Speaker 3  25:28  
Yeah? The one who has the power don't want everyone to share the same,

Prof. Jiang  25:39  
yeah? Because we don't want people to all have money. The powerful people don't want that. That's exactly the answer. And why? Because otherwise no one would work. Do you understand the point of putting money is not to give you money. The point of putting money is to create the illusion that money is valuable, and therefore you work hard in order to obtain it. But in order for me to make you want to get money, I need to create artificial misery. You understand, right? If there weren't poor people, you wouldn't want to be rich. It's only because you see people suffer that you would want to go make money for yourself. What do your parents tell you? Your parents tell you, work hard in school, make a lot of money, otherwise you're going to end up like a poor person, right? Well, guess what? If there's no poor people, your parents couldn't say that to you, and you wouldn't want to work hard in school, right? That's why we have poverty, because poverty creates the illusion that money is valuable.

Prof. Jiang  27:02  
In other words, Poverty isn't what you do to yourself, it is what the powerful do to you. Now, let me ask you another question. You guys have studied some economics. Why do you have like crises? Crises, for example, there's a stock market crash, or, for example, the economy goes down and people lose their jobs. Why do we have crises? Exactly, you're not taught this in economics class. That's kind of weird, right? The point of crises is to destroy money. Why do we need to destroy money? Because if there's too much money in the system, people don't have to work. So you have to destroy this money in order to make people feel money is scarce. Okay, does that make sense? So why do we have wars? Right? Why are there wars in the world, then? Because they're fighting over scarce resources, right? I already told you, scarcity is a lie. The real reason is war is meant to destroy wealth in order to make you think money is valuable. You understand, you guys play war of Warcraft, or these games, right? Guess what? Guys, what are our craft in our world? There's actually no difference. You just went around pointlessly working hard to obtain credits in order to buy stuff. If credit just flew out the sky. Because they could do that, right? They could actually programme the engine to just put money out of nothing. You wouldn't do nothing every day. You wouldn't play the game. Okay? It's only because you believe that there's scarcity in the world and that you must work hard to obtain wealth that you do any work. Do you understand this? So this world that we live in, it's a complete illusion created by central banking in order to make us work as hard as possible, because the real value is not money. The real value is the work we do. Okay. Does that make sense? Guys? All right, yeah,

Speaker 4  29:21  
you said, scarcity is an illusion. I understand money can be printed infinitely, but resources such as food and land, they are technically unlimited. So scarcity, the scarcity still exists in other resources.

Prof. Jiang  29:40  
That's a great question. Okay. So question is, isn't food scarce? Because food is a finite resource, right? Do yourself a favour, okay, go to the garbage dump somewhere, anywhere in Beijing and see the amount of food that is wasted every single day. If food was scarce, what? Why do we have food waste? Okay? So if you just do the mathematics, what you will discover is there's enough food to feed everyone. Okay? There doesn't have to be hunger and starvation. It's an artificial crisis. Okay, does that make sense? So you're right in that, yeah, foods are infinite, but it's abundant. There's a lot of it, enough to feed people. Okay,

Prof. Jiang  30:36  
okay, all right. Um, so again, you guys are stuck in the scarcity mindset, and it's very convincing. So let's move on. Okay, so this is, this is something that we'll go back to later on, because I cannot convince you today, this morning, that, I mean, you believed about the world, about yourself, is wrong. Okay, you're still stuck there, like, okay, there's scarcity, and you're right, there's scarcity, but we also live in a world of abundance, and a lot of things that you believe are just misconceptions about the world. Okay, so we'll go back there. Okay, later on, right? So let's move on. Okay, so we've done money now, right? Now, let's do another question. Let's do a question of happiness. The question for us today is, what makes us happy? Come on, what makes you happy? How can you live a happy life? Well, obviously, money, right? You have a lot of money and that's make you happy. What else, exactly? Power, right, sure. Power, excuse me. Freedom, okay, good. Freedom, yeah. What else, relationships, yep, sure you have good friends, right? Like lots and lots of friends. What else? Okay? Love, right? Love, sure. What else like? Video games, I guess vacations, okay, lots and lots of things. Okay, what you will discover about this list is this, you are thinking about individual happiness,

Prof. Jiang  32:41  
and this is actually unique in human history, if you work, if you look back in time to 500 years ago, and you ask people, How can you be happy? They would focus more on collective happiness. In other words, if your community were not happy, you cannot be happy. So the very idea of the individual is new in human history. Before we understood that if you want to live a happy life, you need to take care of your family, you need to take care of your community, for them, for us, throughout most of you, of your ministry happiness meant helping others, being generous to others. So for example, let's just say that I go off and I wonder, and then I find a lot of gold, right? I come back, and what's the first thing I do with all this gold? Do you guys know? And this like the ancient past? Okay, yeah, good, right? We're gonna dig a hole and put that money inside, because we want to give to our children. That's a modern mindset. But what did they do before? And this happened throughout every society. If I became rich one day, what's the first thing I would do? No, okay, so we'll learn this. Okay? But the first thing that people did was they had a big feast for everyone, they spent all the money on a big feast, because what mattered was your reputation within the community. What mattered was just your generosity. If you got rich one day, you made sure that everyone in community benefited from your wealth, usually by holding a big feast. And guess what? Guys, this was true in China for most of Chinese history, right? If you are, if you come from a Chinese village, come you come to Beijing, you open a restaurant, you make a lot of money, you go, you go to a village. What's the first thing you do? Come on, guys, you have. Big feast for everyone. Okay, so this is ingrained in us, okay, but as you say today, what we believe is, if you got a lot of money, put it underground or put in the bank, okay, but back then, for most of human history, we would just spend it all on a big feast. We wanted everyone to share in happiness, and that's what made us happy?

Prof. Jiang  35:24  
Okay, any questions? Yeah, I

Unknown Speaker  35:32  
was wondering you mentioned that it was full reputation on some levels that count into us, because you get rich, you care about your Okay,

Prof. Jiang  35:49  
yeah, so, so you're asking, isn't this about individual reputation? And again, I mean, this is hard, okay, but the individual, the cost of individual, did not exist before we just kidding. We just created it. The idea that I'm a person, independent, my family, independent, my community, independent of the world around me makes no sense. What was the worst punishment that could be inflicted on you in the past? Let's just say that we're gonna fight I kill you, right? No longer

Unknown Speaker  36:21  
belong to this

Prof. Jiang  36:22  
exactly, banishment, exile, not death, right? And today, if I killed you, the police would come catch me and kill me. But before, we didn't do that, because the worst thing that we could do was exile you. Says you're no longer part of us. You understand so because of the individual did not exist, right? Okay, so let's move on, all right. So now I'm going to present two understandings of the world, and you're going to tell me which understanding you think is correct. The first understanding we humans don't have agency. We don't have really control. Why? Because there are powerful gods out there. Okay, there are these powerful gods like Apollo, Dionysius, oh. The problem though, is that they are also controlled by other gods that are more powerful, like, for example, fate, fortune. And then there are these really ancient gods that control the structure of the universe, for example, maybe anger and pride. So you absolutely know individual agency, because there's always a god screwing with you. Okay, you might get rich, but then the God of pride looks at you and says, no, no, no, I didn't teach this more to a lesson. So the God comes into me, makes me too arrogant, and I screw up. Okay, so we're always be controlled by these forces beyond our understanding. So that's a first worldview. Second worldview is this, we are synapses that generate memories. We are memories. Our understanding the world comes from our experience that is controlled by synapses. Synapses come from a combination of DNA and environment, our genes and our interaction with the environment, our experiences and what this means is that we can now have control over our own individual fate. If you're angry, it's because some experience or some genes made you angry, and this anger becomes reinforced in your memories, and therefore if you do proper therapy, if you do proper reflection, if you do some exercises, you can better control your anger, and therefore control your fate. Okay, so in the first worldview, there are lots and lots of gods. They're evil and they're random, and we have absolutely no control over fate. We only hope to get lucky in life and not piss off the gods. In the second worldview, we are only a collection of our memories, and we are only synopsis so we're able to manipulate the memories and the synapse in a proper way. We can be free of all problems. We can be free of anger. We can be free of hap of depression. We can be free of misery, right? Let me ask you this question. Which worldview is a more accurate reflection of reality? Obviously, second one, right? Because this is neuroscience, science or psychology or psychiatry. This is what you've been taught in school. This is what you all believe our entire society structured around this very idea. And what you will learn in this class is it is completely wrong. It is a sec. It is the first one that is more accurate reflection of reality. The first one gives you more information, gives you gives you a more accurate assessment of how the world really works. You okay, so now let me ask you this question, if the first worldview, and this is called, we call polytheism, and polytheism, for most of human history, was the dominant religion, okay, now we live in a world where the religion is science. Science is basically religion. So why do we make the transition? What's the benefit if you're a powerful person, why would you prefer the second one as opposed to the first one? Why? What's the benefits to powerful people? What does power want to believe the second one but not the first one?

Prof. Jiang  41:31  
Yeah. Okay, so the idea of individual responsibility, okay, so then there's more control. It's easier to control people in the system, right? That's the first benefit. What second benefit? The second benefit is you will work harder, right? Because in the first system, you're like, you know what? I don't need to go make a lot of money, because if I make a lot of money, the gods will punish me and make me proud. So I'm just gonna, like, enjoy life and take it easy, right? So in the first in the second system, no, no, I have control over my own life, so I need to work hard. Okay, so, again, the entire point of the system is to make you work as hard as possible. Because when you work hard, that generates, well, real wealth for the powerful people. Money doesn't does nothing, okay? Money just incentivizes you to work hard. So this exists in order to make you work harder. There's one more benefit, or there's more benefits, but what's another benefit? The other benefit is this powerlessness. It makes you powerless. Why this system is designed to make you absolutely powerless? Why? Why? No, no, no, no, no, see, again, again. This is how you're brainwashed. You believe one makes you powerless, but NASA correct, two makes you powerless. Why? What's between one and two? Why is it number two? You are powerless.

Prof. Jiang  43:37  
Okay, so the problem with number two is you are incapable of collective action, because you think all sorts of your problems is the individual in you, and not society. But number one, you are capable of collective action, and the only way to change the world is through collective action. Does it make sense? That's a really important point two is designed to make you think the source of all your problems is within you. So you should ignore what other people do and think doesn't matter to you, and therefore you are incapable of identifying with other people, you're not capable of collective action. You're not capable of collective action, and you feel really miserable. What you will do is play video games or watch porn all day. Okay? And that's what's happening in society today.

Speaker 5  44:38  
Yeah, from experience, we would know that you should listen to the other's advice, or you should take others' perspectives, and not just

Prof. Jiang  44:56  
so number two, who has authority? Who do you listen to? Azmain, you're listening to scientists, right? Scientists, because this system was created by scientists to trick you. Okay? This system, you think, oh, it's science, therefore it must be real, guys, let me give you a piece of advice. Okay, if you're ever feeling sad and you are depressed. What should you do? What should you do? What have you been taught to do? You feel sad, you're depressed. What should you do? Okay, yeah, the correct answer is, walk around. But that's not what you've been taught, right? What have you been taught to do? Taught to do? Okay, telling your friend to your parents, that's actually really good, right? So, walking around, exercising, resting, talking to a friend about your problem, that's all really good. But what have you been taught to do in school, really? If you are feeling really, really sad, what should you do? You should go talk to a psychic. Psychiatrist, right? You should talk to a psychologist, and what will he do? What will he or she do? Okay? Well, I do a piece of lunch, okay? And you can test it out for yourself. But if you're feeling sad and you are feeling depressed and you feel you have to talk to a psychiatrist, and you do so, I will make you bet that the psychiatrist will make it a lot worse. You will feel worse after talking to psychiatrists. Okay? And the reason why is the system is not designed to cure you of any problems. The system is to make you dependent on authority. You know that if you feel sad, well, you know what? Just go for a walk, talk to a friend. You'll feel better over time, but the system teaches you No, you feel sad, go talk to a psychiatrist. We'll give you drugs. It's designed to make you dependent on authority.

Speaker 4  46:59  
Yeah, I'm I won't tell us, like in scenario, one way, number one, wouldn't God also be an authority? Like God will also be authority?

Prof. Jiang  47:12  
That's actually a great question. Okay, God is authority, okay, that's actually a great question. Thank you so much. So I have to spend time to explain to you both systems, and I will do so. But what's really important about number one is the gods are really bad people. Okay, the gods in number one the polyphasic system. They fight all the time. They're vengeful, they're angry, they're proud, but because they're gods, they get thinking they can get away with it, and that's the difference between humans and gods. We're all the same, we're all angry, we're all jealous, we all fight, okay, but the gods can get away with it. The humans cannot. Gods can do hubris. We cannot do hubris. Do you understand? So the idea that, Oh, the people in power are benevolent, the people in power are authority figures who are after our best interest, that is a new, modern concept. Before it was assumed that the king is a king. Why? Because he's favoured by the gods. It's not because he's a good person, it's not because he's a just ruler. It's just because the gods like him for whatever reason. But guess what the gods give and the gods take. Maybe today, the king will rule us, but maybe five years from now, he gets unlucky and the gods kill him. Too bad if you read Greek mythology, and we'll do so in this class. Okay, we'll go over into Greek civilization. We'll look at Oedipus. We'll look at Homer, the Iliad. Okay? They talk about this all the time. Fate is something that you cannot control, something that happens to you, and therefore you must live life to your best. All right, so the difference is this. The difference is in number one, they have a concept called eudaimonia, if you have no control over your fate, if things can happen to you tomorrow that kill you, then live your life to the best of your ability today, seize the day, be the best that you can be today, And that's how you win favour from the gods eudaimonia, what we call flourishing. The point of life is to live it to the best of your ability. And that's why, guess what? Guys, the ancients, the Greeks, they were superior to us. If you read Greek literature. Be weak. Greek philosophy, Plato, Homer, ischylus, eugenics, they were the best today. We suck. Why? Because instead of you like, moo, we have pleasure. Rather than flourish. As creative people, we're like, how do I enjoy my life today? How do I not feel sad? Okay? So in the first system, even though it sounds like we have no control, we have no agency, but it inspires us to live to the best of our ability. The second system, we're like, Oh, you have control, complete control, over your life. It enslaves us. Okay? All right. Now let's move on to the third and final example. And I know this is shocking, I know this is surprising, but over the course of the semester, I will give you enough evidence to convince you that this is all true. Okay, I'm just set the structure in the framework today. All right, let's, let's, let's do now, do school. Guys, why do you have school? Why are we in school? Why? Why are you here? What something is learn and teach. Exactly right? Learn. What else, yeah, to get to get the degree, okay to get the degree, okay to graduate. What else? Knowledge? Yes, I

Speaker 3  51:44  
a chance to brainwash the students. Excuse me, I feel like give a power a chest, brainwashing.

Prof. Jiang  51:57  
Okay, guess what? Guys, the correct answer is brainwashing. Everything else is a lie. All right, what do you do in school? You come to class, you listen to a lecture, you read books, right? And then you and then you have to do a test, and you have to write a paper, and then, and then the teacher gives you a grade. That's how you learn, right? Let me ask you this question. Then throughout most of you of human history, how do we learn? If you wanna become a doctor, what did you

Prof. Jiang  52:36  
do? The answer is, experience. Do it right? Let me ask you this question. Let's

Prof. Jiang  52:46  
say you're 12 years old, you'll be a doctor. Okay, there are two paths ahead of you. The first path is, you know what? I'm just put you in a hospital, and you're gonna learn there for like 10 years. Someone's gonna mentor you, someone's your apprentice. Maybe in the first year, all you do is, like, wash the floor, okay, but you're gonna observe the doctor, and then eventually the doctor's going to tell you how to treat patients. Okay, that's the first system. Second system is, you go to the best school in the world, then you go to Harvard for undergraduate, they go to Harvard Medical School, the best medical school in the world. Okay, at age 30, who's about a doctor? Number one or number two? Obviously the first one, right? Because the second person, the person who went to Harvard and Harvard Medical School did not ever work in a hospital. You understand? Now, let me ask you another question. In the first system, do you have to be really, really smart to be a good doctor? No, you don't. Actually, anyone can be a doctor in the first system, anyone, we human beings are all born the capacity to learn anything. If you wanted to learn it, right, you'll be an engineer. You're a lawyer. If you want to be a doctor, you'll be a scientist, you'll be anything. Okay, just go find a mentor who can teach you how to do so, and I guarantee you that you will learn how to do it well, and anyone can do this. But instead, we have a system in which we tell students, you're smart, you're stupid. Smart students go to good schools and good universities, and they get good jobs, Steward students, go wash dishes. Okay? And that was not true for most of human history. It's true today, but for most of you of human history, you have to go learn something. All you had to do was go find a teacher, and that teacher. Teach you and then you would learn it, right? So school is not a place to teach you how to learn. A School doesn't teach you knowledge. It doesn't do that. A school is a place that brainwashes you. Okay? Now the question then is, what does it brainwash you? In why would it brainwash you? Okay, all right, to answer that, I'm going to give you some history. Okay, we will do a lot of history in this class, but I'm going to tell you the three societies that first introduce mandatory, free public schooling in the world, okay? The first is called Sparta. Okay. Sparta was a small city state in Greece, like three, 4000 years ago, 3000 years ago, and they had a new system in which children as early as five or six years old, they were put into a school, and in the school, they were beaten up by older kids who were like nine or 10. That's Sparta, the second society was called the axe text Aztex, and they also provided free, compulsory education to all its children. Really good, right? And the third society is called prasha. And actually, prasha is a system that everyone uses today. You guys know any history? What is common about all three? Society, Sparta, Aztecs and Prussia?

Prof. Jiang  56:56  
What is common to all three? I Okay, war. All three societies are fundamentally war, societies dedicated to defeating their neighbours. Sparta was one of 1000s of city states in Greece, the only society all these 1000s that had compulsory education. Why? Because Sparta was first and foremost, engaged in war making. Sparta, you've heard of Spartans, right? It's the spartan warrior, okay? The Aztecs were the greatest war society in Central America before the arrival the Europeans, they defeated everyone. They were engaged in war. They also did a lot of human sacrifice as well. We learn about Aztecs later on, Prussia. The Prussians the greatest military in Europe for centuries. They were engaged in war making as well. Okay. Do you understand this? Why we have schools is because schools are really good at preparing people for war. Why? They have

Prof. Jiang  58:26  
people, what is? What is? Why? Why? Let me ask you this question, why they did not have schools before? Why is it that people like we don't want schools? Why? Again, the Sparta assets and pressure, were the few societies that had free public schooling. Why didn't other cities just copy them? Why?

Prof. Jiang  58:55  
Let me ask you this question. Let's just say you're a mother or father, what's the and you have a child, right? What's the worst thing that could happen in your life? No parents, no, no. Your mother or your father, you have a child, right? What's the worst thing that can happen to you in your life? Your child is staying away from you, right? What does school do?

Prof. Jiang  59:26  
School is designed to take your child away from you. Okay, let me ask you this question. If school is about learning, why don't parents and children go to school together? Yeah, why not? Why? Because parents have to work to survive, right? There's actually a better reason why

Prof. Jiang  59:58  
it's about brainwashing, right? On, because how do you brainwash someone? Right? If you're with your parent, are you brainwashed? No, because you feel loved, you feel secure. Your parents gonna protect you. You're not your parent. Hey, is this teacher? Is he or she lying to me and the parents like, yeah, he's lying to you. Okay, it's only because you've been taking away from your parent that you are now willing to be brainwashed. Why? Because, what happens if you leave your parents? How do you feel? How do you feel? Yeah, exactly right. Insecure, you're anxious, you're afraid, you understand you've lost your parent, you're four, you're five, you're six years old, you've lost your parent. You feel really insecure. So who do you trust your teacher? Whatever your teacher says is now correct,

Unknown Speaker  1:01:02  
because they went to school before.

Prof. Jiang  1:01:05  
Yeah, okay, that's a great point. Okay, aren't our parents brainwashed as well? That's correct. Your parents are brainwashed. But what I'm saying is, when a parent is with a child, the child feels secure, and if you're secure, you're much more willing to disobey authority, you're much willing to ask questions, you're much willing to think for yourself, because you feel secure because your parent is there to protect you. But if you take a parent away, you can't do that. You must be now rely on the teacher who can now brainwash you. Okay, so are you brainwashing us? Am I brainwashing you? Okay, okay, all right, okay, so the question is, am I brainwashing you? Okay, that's a good question, and it's a fair question, and again, that's why I tell you this. Okay, you have the capacity to ask me questions. You have the capacity to challenge me. You have the capacity to think for yourself. Okay, so all I'm saying is, hear me out, ask me questions and then think for yourself, whether or not I make sense, because the difference between my class and other classes is like, I don't test you, right? I don't give you grades. It's a pass fail class. You can actually choose to say, You know what? This is, nonsense. I don't want to listen anymore. I can't I can't stop you, okay, but in school, guess what happens if you don't go come to school, your parents get arrested. All right? You understand that's the difference. It's your choice whether or not to pay attention or not. All right. So another question is, okay, if schools are designed to brainwash you, what are they brainwashing you in well, they're designed to brainwash you to believe a concept called the nation state. The nation state, the school is designed to brainwash you to think the nation state exists. It is a person, mother, China, you must love this person. You must be willing to sacrifice yourself for this person. You must be willing to send ticket yourself to this person, because it is mother China. And how do we brainwash you? We teach you language, right? We teach you history, we teach you geography, we teach you all this to make you believe that the nation state, Mother China, the United States, France, they all exist. But guess what? Throughout most of human history, it was absurd to think the nation state existed, okay, before you didn't say I'm Chinese, before you say I'm a Beijing, or I'm from Haidian, or I'm from Chow Yang, right? Because that makes more sense. You're from a place where you know the people, but now, because of the nation state, you are forced to believe that you are the same person as someone from Yunnan, Tibet Guangxi, even though that's why, guys, you have absolutely nothing in common, but you're all Chinese, and that's what school is designed to do. School is designed to implant in you a false memory of a nation state. That's what history is. History is the false memory of a nation state, and it happened, and that's why you're all forced to go to school, okay? Maybe,

Speaker 3  1:04:49  
like we also want you to just think about degrees and work as a normal person, not to create a legal business or personal.

Prof. Jiang  1:05:00  
Yeah, yeah. So, yeah. So the point of school is to serve the nation state. Do you understand, right? Does that make sense? If you believe in the nation state, you believe in Mother China, then you must serve her. You must obey her. You must fight for you must die for her. Okay? So the idea of the nation state was created in order to make you obedient to authority, and it works very effectively. Yeah,

Prof. Jiang  1:05:35  
all countries. All countries are nation states. Okay, so I mean, like, I'm not saying China is different from other places. China is exactly the same as other places. What you will learn in this class is, how do we get to this place? Because again, the three things that we learned, okay, money, the individual, the nation state, these are all ideas and concepts beyond the human experience. If you try to work this out from first principles, you try to figure this out by yourself. You couldn't do it. You have to be brainwashed into believing these three things. If someone from the past, maybe 1000 years ago, were to come today, you would explain the concept of money, individual initial state, the person would be like, wait a minute here. This means that you're all slaves. Okay, so now the question then is, where do we get these three concepts from? What you will learn in this class is these three concepts come from a revolution in human thought called monotheism, the one true God. This idea monotheism forever changed the course of human history, and it gave us these concepts of money, individual and nation state. Monotheism is such a powerful idea that it turned nothing into everything. Okay, that's what you will learn in this class. We will learn about modernism, and we will discover how it created money, individual in the nation state, and it basically create the world that we live in today. Okay? All right, any questions?

Prof. Jiang  1:07:53  
Okay, yeah, so there are three great monophasic religions, right? Judaism, Christianity and Islam. What I will show you later on is it's basically the same religion, yep. All right, okay, so I don't want to give you too much information, okay, because there's a lot to process, but I want you guys to remember the concepts money, individual and nation state are all powerful concepts that are embedded into everyday life. You cannot escape it. You've been brainwashed into thinking that they all exist, when, in fact, they actually they actually don't exist. And that's how power works. What power is okay, what power truly is, is what's called a alchemy. Alchemy, throughout human history, was the pursuit of turning lead into gold, lead into gold. I it, okay, nothing into everything. That's what alchemy was. And maybe in science class, you're taught that alchemy is this fake science. It's a pseudo science, and it did not work. What you will learn this class is, we achieve alchemy. Okay? We turn nothing into everything. We turn lead into gold, or that's what power is. Power is the capacity to turn nothing into everything. Power is a capacity to make you believe that money is valuable, that the individual can lead to happiness, that the nation state exists. That's what power is, okay. And as a result, today, we live extremely miserable lives. Okay? So you've been taught to think that, oh, life just gets better and better. What you will learn in this class is actually, Nope, okay, and what, what's really important is you will also learn in this class that this was an accident. Okay? Because this is an accident. It's an accident of the human imagination. It's because we didn't know what we were doing that we created this system. So what you also learn is that you're able to control the human imagination. You can use it to create a new system that allows for eudaimonia, or the flourishing of the human intellect. Okay, all right, any questions, okay, so that's it for today. Okay, I'll see you guys. Next class. You.

